Abase : Lower; degrade; humiliate; make humble; make (oneself) lose self-respect
Abash : Embarrass
Abate : Subside or moderate
Abbreviate : Shorten
Abdicate : Renounce; give up (position, right, or responsibility)
Aberrant : Abnormal or deviant
Aberration : Deviation from the normal; mental disorder
Abet : Assist usually in doing something wrong; encourage
Abeyance : Suspended action
Abhor : Detest; hate
Abide : Dwell; abide by: comply with; put up with; tolerate; Ex. abide by the rules; ex. I can't abide rude people.
Abject : (of a condition) wretched; as low as possible; lacking pride; very humble; showing lack of self-respect; ex. abject apology
Abjure : Renounce upon oath
Ablution : Washing
Abnegation : Renunciation; self-sacrifice; self-abnegation
Abode : Dwelling place; home
Abolish : Cancel; put an end to
Abominable : Detestable; extremely unpleasant
Abominate : Loathe; hate
Aboriginal : Being the first of its kind in a region; primitive; native; indigenous; n. aborigine
Abortive : Unsuccessful; fruitless
Abrasive : Rubbing away; tending to grind down
Abridge : Condense or shorten
Abrogate : Abolish
Abscission : Cutting off; separation
Abscond : Depart secretly and hide
Absolute : Complete; totally unlimited; having complete power; certain; not relative; ex. absolute honesty/ruler; cf. absolutism
Absolve : Pardon (an offense)
Abstemious : Sparing in eating and drinking; temperate
Abstinence : Restraint from pleasant things, esp. eating or drinking; cf. abstention: the act of abstaining from a vote
Abstract : Theoretical; not concrete; nonrepresentational
Abstruse : Obscure; profound; difficult to understand
Abusive : Coarsely insulting; physically harmful
Abut : Border upon; adjoin
Abysmal : Bottomless
Abyss : Enormous chasm; vast bottomless pit
Academic : Related to a school; not practical or directly useful
Accede : Agree
Accelerate : Move faster
Accessible : Easy to approach; obtainable
Accessory : Additional object; useful but not essential thing
Acclaim : Applaud; praise; greet with great approval; announce with great approval; ex. the new drug has been acclaimed as the most important discoveries for years; n: strong expression of approval and praise
Acclimate : Adjust to climate or environment; adapt
Acclivity : Sharp upslope of a hill; op. declivity
Accolade : Award of merit; strong praise and approval
Accommodate : Oblige or help someone; adjust or bring into harmony; adapt; make enough space for; adj. accommodative; cf. accommodating: helpful and obliging
Accomplice : Partner in crime
Accord : Agreement
Accost : Approach and speak first to a person
Accoutre : Equip; n. accoutrement
Accretion : Growth or increase in size by gradual addition; growth; increase; increase by natural growth; ex. towers and other accretions of the castle; v. accrete
Accrue : Come to one as a gain; accumulate over time; come about by addition; ex. benefits that accrue from scientific research; ex. interest accruing in a bank account; n. accrual
Acerbity : Bitterness of speech and temper; adj. acerbic: bitter; acrid (in taste, manner, or tone)
Acetic : Vinegary
Acknowledge : Recognize; admit
Acme : Peak; pinnacle; highest point
Acne : Skin disease (on the face)
Acoustics : Science of sound; the quality that makes a room easy or hard to hear in
Acquiesce : Assent; agree passively; comply without protest
Acquittal : Deliverance from a charge; v. acquit: free from a charge or accusation; discharge from a duty; conduct (oneself) in a specified manner
Acrid : Bitter (to the taste or smell); sharp; bitterly pungent
Acrimonious : Stinging; caustic; bitter in words or manner; n. acrimony: bitter ill-natured animosity in speech or behavior
Acrophobia : Fear of heights
Actuarial : Calculating; pertaining to insurance statistics
Actuary : Someone who advises insurance companies
Actuate : Motivate; activate; cause to act
Acuity : Sharpness (of mind or senses of sight or hearing)
Acumen : Mental keenness; sharpness of judgment; ability to judge quickly and well; ex. business acumen
Acute : (of the senses) sharp; quickly perceptive; keen; penetrating; brief and severe; Ex. an acute sense of smell/analysis/pain
Adage : Wise saying; proverb
Adamant : Hard; inflexible
Adapt : Make or become suitable for a specific use; alter; modify; adjust; n. adaptation: the act of adapting; composition recast into a new form; ex. the play is an adaption of a short novel.
Addendum : Addition; appendix to book; something that is added (as at the end of a speech or book)
Addiction : Compulsive habitual need
Addle : Make or become confused; muddle; drive crazy; become rotten (egg)
Address : Direct a speech to; speak to; deal with or discuss; direct one's efforts or attention to; make with a destination; n: formal speech
Adept : Expert at; very skilled
Adhere : Stick fast; be a devoted follower; n. adhesion: adhering; devotion; loyalty
Adherent : Supporter; follower
Adjacent : Adjoining; neighboring; close by
Adjourn : Suspend until a later time; move from one place to another
Adjunct : Something attached to but holding an inferior position
Adjuration : Solemn urging; v. adjure: entreat earnestly; enjoin solemnly
Adjutant : Staff officer assisting the commander; assistant
Admonish : Warn or speak to with gentle disapproval; reprove
Adore : Love deeply and respect highly
Adorn : Decorate
Adroit : Skillful (in using mind or hand)
Adulation : Flattery; admiration that is more than is necessary or deserved
Adulterate : Make impure or of poorer quality by adding inferior or tainted(contaminated) substances
Advent : Arrival
Adventitious : Accidental; casual; happening by chance
Adversary : Opponent; the enemy
Adverse : Going against; opposing; unfavorable; hostile
Adversity : Great hardship or affliction; misfortune; a calamitous event
Advert : Refer
Advocacy : Support; active pleading on behalf of someone or something
Advocate : Speak in favor of; support (an idea or plan); urge; plead for
Aegis : Shield; protection; defense
Aerie(aery,eyrie,eyry) : Nest of a large bird of prey
Aesthetic : Artistic; dealing with or capable of appreciating the beautiful (of a person or building); cf. aesthete; cf. aesthetics
Affable : Easily approachable; easy to talk to; warmly friendly
Affected : Artificial; pretended
Affidavit : a Written statement made under oath (for use as proof in a court of law)
Affiliation : Joining; associating with
Affinity : Feeling of kinship; similarity; Ex. strong affinity for her; ex. many affinities between two languages
Affirmation : Positive assertion; confirmation; solemn pledge by one who refuses to take an oath; v. affirm; adj. affirmative; cf. affirmative action: positive discrimination
Affliction : State of distress; trial; cause of distress or suffering; v. afflict: inflict grievous suffering on
Affront : Insult; offense; intentional act of disrespect; v: insult or hurt the feelings of intentionally
Afterlife : Life after death; later part of one's life
Agape : Openmouthed
Agenda : Items of business at a meeting
Agglomeration : Collection; heap; v. agglomerate: gather into a rounded mass; n. agglomerate: jumbled mass; heap
Aggrandize : Make greater; increase in power, wealth, rank, or honor; n. aggrandizement
Aggregate : Sum; total; adj. v: gather into a mass or whole; accumulate; add up to; ex. aggregate 100 dollars
Aghast : Filled with great surprise or fear; horrified
Agility : Nimbleness; ability to move quickly
Agitate : Stir up; disturb
Agnostic : One who is skeptical of the existence or knowability of a god or any ultimate reality
Agog : Highly excited; intensely curious
Agrarian : Pertaining to land or its cultivation; ex. agrarian reform
Airy : Of air; high in the air; lofty; immaterial; unreal
Alacrity : Cheerful promptness without reluctance
Alchemy : Medieval chemistry
Alcove : Nook; recess
Alias : An assumed name esp. by a criminal (usually to mislead people); adv. alias
Alienate : Make unfriendly or hostile; estrange; separate; change the ownership of
Alimentary : Supplying nourishment
Alimony : Payments made regularly to an ex-spouse after divorce
Allay : Calm; pacify
Allege : State without proof
Allegiance : Loyalty
Allegory : Story, play, or picture in which characters are used as symbols; fable
Alleviate : Relieve (pain)
Alliteration : Repetition of beginning sound in poetry
Allocate : Assign; set apart for a particular purpose
Allude : Refer indirectly; n. allusion: indirect reference
Allure : Entice; attract; tempt
Alluvial : Pertaining to soil deposits left by running water
Alms : Money or goods given to the poor
Aloft : Upward; high up in the air
Aloof : Apart; not open in one's relationship with other people; reserved; Adv.
Altercation : Noisy quarrel
Altruistic : Unselfishly generous; concerned for others; n. altruism: unselfish concern for the welfare of others; unselfishness; op. egoism
Amalgam : Combination of different things; a mixture of metals (containing mercury) used for filling holes in teeth
Amalgamate : (of societies or groups) combine; unite in one body
Amass : Collect (gradually, in a very large amount)
Amazon : Female warrior
Ambidextrous : Capable of using either hand with equal ease
Ambience : Environment; atmosphere; ex. restaurant with a pleasant ambience; adj. ambient: completely surrounding; ex. ambient temperature
Ambiguous : Unclear or doubtful in meaning; having more than one possible interpretation
Ambivalence : The state of having contradictory or conflicting emotional attitudes or opinions
Amble : Walking at an easy unhurried pace; v: walk slowly and aimlessly
Ambrosia : Food of the gods
Ambulatory : Able to walk
Ambush : Act of lying in wait to attack by surprise; a sudden attack made from a concealed position; ex. lie in ambush; v.
Ameliorate : Improve
Amenable : Obedient; compliant; readily managed; responsive; willing to be led; answerable or accountable legally; responsible; able to be tested by; ex. amenable to sensible suggestions; ex. he is very amenable; ex. amenable to the usual tests
Amend : Correct; change ; generally for the better
Amenities : Convenient features that help to make life pleasant; social courtesies
Amiable : Agreeable; lovable; warmly friendly
Amicable : Peaceful; politely friendly; not quarrelsome; ex. amicable settlement
Amiss : Wrong; faulty; ex. something amiss; Adv.
Amnesia : Loss of memory
Amnesty : Pardon (allowed by the government to political criminals)
Amok(amuck) : In a state of rage; ex. run amok
Amoral : Nonmoral; having no understanding of right and wrong
Amorous : Moved by sexual love; loving; of sexual love; ex. amorous advances
Amorphous : Formless; lacking shape or definition
Amphibian : Able to live both on land and in water; n.
Amphitheater : Oval building with tiers of seats; cf. arena
Ample : Enough; abundant; spacious; large in size; ex. ample opportunity/garden; n. amplitude: quality of being ample; abundance; largeness of space
Amplify : Increase in size or effect; expand; broaden or clarify by expanding; intensify; make stronger; ex. amplify one's remarks with a graph
Amputate : Cut off part of the body; prune (a limb)
Amulet : Charm; talisman; an object worn believed to protect against evil, bad luck
Anachronism : An error involving time in a story; something or someone misplaced in time; adj. anachronistic
Analgesia : Condition of being unable to feel pain
Analgesic : Causing insensitivity to pain; n.
Analogous : Comparable; similar
Analogy : Similarity; parallelism; comparing two similar things
Anarchist : Person who seeks to overturn the established government; advocate of abolishing authority
Anarchy : Absence of governing body; the state of disorder
Anathema : Solemn curse; someone or something regarded as a curse; v. anathematize
Ancestry : Family descent; adj. ancestral
Anchor : Secure or fasten firmly; be fixed in place; n. anchorage
Ancillary : Serving as an aid or accessory; auxiliary; n.
Anecdote : Short story of an amusing or interesting event
Anemia : Condition in which blood lacks red corpuscles; adj. anemic
Anesthetic : Substance that removes sensation with or without loss of consciousness; n. anesthesia
Anguish : Acute pain; extreme suffering
Animadversion : Critical remark; v. animadvert: comment critically with disapproval
Animated : Lively; spirited
Animosity : Active enmity
Animus : Hostile feeling or intent; animosity; hostility; disposition
Annals : Records arranged in yearly parts; history
Anneal : Reduce brittleness and improve toughness by heating and cooling (metal or glass)
Annex : Attach; add to a large thing; take possession of; incorporate (territory) into a larger existing political unit (by force); n: building added to a large one
Annihilate : Destroy
Annotate : Comment; make explanatory notes
Annuity : Yearly allowance
Annul : Make void
Anodyne : Drug that relieves pain or trouble;opiate; adj. ex. anodyne statement
Anoint : Consecrate; put oil on (in a religious ceremony)
Anomalous : Abnormal; irregular
Anomaly : Irregularity
Anonymity : State of being nameless; anonymousness; adj. anonymous
Antagonism : Hostility; active opposition; v. antagonize: cause to become an enemy; n. antagonist: a person who is opposed to another; opponent; adversary; principal character in opposition to the protagonist
Antecede : Precede
Antecedents : Preceding events that influence what comes later; ancestors or early background
Antediluvian : Antiquated; extremely ancient
Anthem : Song of praise or patriotism; ex. national anthem
Anthology : Book of literary selections by various authors; cf. omnibus
Anthropoid : Manlike; resembling a human being; n.
Anthropologist : Student of the history and science of humankind
Anthropomorphic : Having human form or characteristics
Anticlimax : Letdown in thought or emotion; something unexciting, ordinary, or disappointing coming after something important or exciting
Antidote : Remedy to counteract a poison or disease; ex. the antidote to the economic troubles
Antipathy : Aversion; dislike or opposition
Antiquated : Obsolete; old-fashioned; outdated
Antique : Made in an earlier period and usu. valuable; n: object that was made in an earlier
Antiquity : Quality of being very old; ancient times;
Antiseptic : Substance that prevents infection in a wound; adj.
Antithesis : Contrast; direct opposite of or to; adj. antithetic or antithetical
Antler : Bony growth on the head of a deer
Anvil : Iron block used in hammering out metals
Apathy : Lack of caring; indifference; lack of concern or interest in important matters; ex. he was sunk in apathy after his failure; adj. apathetic
Ape : Imitate or mimic (a person's behavior or manner)
Aperture : Opening; hole; adjustable opening in a camera that limits the amount of light
Apex : Tip; summit; climax; highest point
Aphasia : Loss of speech due to injury or illness
Aphorism : Pithy maxim or saying; adj. aphoristic
Apiarist : Person who keeps bees
Apiary : A place where bees are kept
Apiculture : Bee-keeping
Aplomb : Poise; composure in difficult situations; assurance; self-confidence
Apocalyptic : Prophetic; pertaining to revelations especially of disaster; n. apocalypse
Apocryphal : (of a story) widely believed but untrue
Apogee : Highest point; the point farthest from the earth; op. perigee
Apolitical : Having an aversion or lack of concern for political affairs
Apologist : One who writes in defense of a cause or institution; n. apologia
Apoplexy : Stroke; loss of consciousness caused by too much blood in the brain
Apostate : One who abandons his religious faith or political beliefs; n. apostasy
Apothecary : Druggist; pharmacist
Apothegm(apophthegm) : Pithy, compact saying
Apotheosis : Elevation to godhood; an ideal example of something
Appall : Dismay; shock deeply
Apparent : Evident; easily seen or understood; appearing as such; Ex. apparent improvement
Apparition : Ghost; phantom
Appease : Pacify or soothe; ex. appease a crying baby; n. appeasement
Appellation : Name; title
Append : Attach
Application : Diligent attention; diligence; v. apply oneself
Apposite : Appropriate; fitting
Appraise : Estimate value of; n. appraisal
Appreciate : Be thankful for; increase in worth; be thoroughly conscious of; adj. appreciable: enough to be felt; ex. appreciable difference
Apprehend : Arrest (a criminal); dread; perceive; n. apprehension
Apprehensive : Fearful; discerning
Apprise : Inform
Approbation : Approval
Appropriate : Acquire; take possession of for one's own use without permission; set aside for a particular purpose; allocate; cf. misappropriate
Appurtenances : Subordinate possessions; something added to a more important thing
Apropos : With reference to; regarding; ex. remarks apropos (of) the present situation; adj. Adv.
Aptitude : Fitness; talent
Aquiline : Curved; hooked; of or like an eagle; ex. aquiline nose
Arable : Fit for growing crops; ex. arable land
Arbiter : Person with power to decide a matter in dispute; a judge who is in a position to make influential judgments; ex. supreme arbiter of fashion in beachwear
Arbitrary : Unreasonable or capricious; random; tyrannical; ex. arbitrary ruler
Arbitrate : Act as judge (at the request of both sides)
Arboreal : Of or living in trees
Arboretum : Place where different trees and shrubs are studied and exhibited
Arcade : A covered passageway usually lined with shops
Arcane : Esoteric; secret; mysterious; known only to the initiated; ex. arcane ritual; ex. arcane process closed to the uninitiated listener
Arch- : Chief; first; ex. archbishop
Archaeology : Study of artifacts and relics of early mankind
Archaic : Antiquated; no longer used; belonging to the past; n.
Archetype : Prototype; primitive pattern
Archipelago : Group of closely located islands
Archives : Public records; the place where public records are kept
Ardor : Heat; passion; zeal; adj. ardent
Arduous : Hard; strenuous; ex. arduous work
Argot : Slang; speech spoken by only a small group of people
Aria : Operatic solo; a song sung by one person in an opera or oratorio
Arid : (of land) dry; barren; unproductive
Aristocracy : Hereditary nobility; privileged class; government by nobility; n. aristocrat
Armada : Fleet of warships
Aromatic : Fragrant; having a sweet smell; n. aroma: strong pleasant smell
Arraign : Charge in court; indict
Array : Marshal; draw up in order; arrange in order; clothe splendidly; adorn; n: fine clothes; ordered group; ex. in battle array
Arrears : Being in debt; money that should have been paid; work that should have been done
Arrhythmic : Lacking rhythm or regularity; n. arrhythmia
Arrogance : Pride; haughtiness; adj. arrogant: unpleasantly self-important (with a strong confidence in one's own importance and a lack of respect for other people)
Arroyo : Gully; a narrow channel formed by rainwater
Arsenal : Storage place for military equipment
Artery : Blood-vessel; cf. vein
Artful : Exhibiting art or skill; deceitful; cunning; cf. artifice
Articulate : Effective; distinct; expressing ideas clearly; having clear sounds; having joints; ex. articulate speech; v: express thoughts and feeling clearly; pronounce clearly; unite by joints
Artifacts : Object made by human beings, either hand-made or mass-produced
Artifice : Deception; trickery
Artisan : A manually skilled worker
Artless : Without guile; open and honest
Ascendancy : Controlling influence; position of controlling influence; cf. in the ascendant
Ascertain : Find out for certain; make certain
Ascetic : Practicing self-denial; avoiding physical pleasures and comforts; austere; ex. ascetic life of Buddhist monks; n. asceticism
Ascribe : Refer; attribute; assign
Aseptic : Preventing infection; having a cleansing effect
Ashen : Ash-colored; deadly pale
Asinine : Stupid; ex. asinine remarks
Askew : Crookedly; slanted; at an angle
Asperity : Sharpness; roughness; severity (of temper or weather); ex. asperities of a Russian winter
Aspersion : Slanderous remark; ex. cast aspersions on
Aspirant : Seeker after position or status
Aspire : Seek to attain (position or status); long for; ex. aspire to become president; ex. aspire to/after the leadership
Assail : Assault
Assay : Analyze (to discover what materials are present); evaluate (soil or ore)
Assent : Agree; accept; n. assessment
Assert : State strongly or positively; demand recognition of (rights, claims, etc.); make a claim to (by forceful action); ex. assert one's independence
Assiduous : Diligent
Assimilate : Absorb; take (food) into the body and digest it; understand (knowledge) completely and be able to use properly; cause to become homogeneous (the people of a country or race in the ways of behaving or thinking)
Assuage : Mak less severe; ease or lessen (pain); satisfy (hunger); soothe (anger)
Assumption : Something taken for granted; the taking over or taking possession of; ex. her assumption of power; v. assume
Assurance : Firm statement that something is certainly true; promise or pledge; certainty; confidence in one's own ability; self-confidence; ex. in spite of all his assurances, he did not come back; ex. assurance of his loyalty; ex. the teacher lacked assurance
Asteroid : Small planet
Astigmatism : Eye defect which prevents proper focus; op. astigmatism
Astral : Relating to the stars
Astringent : Binding; causing contraction (stopping bleeding); harsh or severe; stringent; ex. astringent criticism
Astronomical : Enormously large or extensive
Astute : Wise; shrewd; keen; seeing quickly something that is to one's advantage
Asunder : Into parts; apart; v. sunder
Asylum : Place of refuge or shelter; protection (religious or political)
Asymmetric : Not identical on both sides of a dividing central line
Atavism : Resemblance to remote ancestors rather than to parents; reversion to an earlier type; throwback; adj. atavistic
Atone : Make amends for; pay for; ex. atone for
Atrocity : Brutal deed; adj. atrocious
Atrophy : Wasting away; v: weaken and lose flesh and muscle (through lack of blood or lack of use)
Attentive : Alert and watchful; listening carefully; paying attention; considerate; thoughtful; politely helpful; ex. attentive audience; ex. he was attentive to the old lady; n. attention: act of courtesy and consideration
Attenuate : Make thin; weaken
Attest : Testify; bear witness
Attire : Clothe; n: clothing; array; apparel
Attribute : Essential quality; v: ascribe; explain
Attrition : Rubbing away by friction; gradual decrease in numbers or strength; reduction in the work force without firing employees; wearing away of opposition by means of harassment; ex. a war of attrition
Atypical : Not normal; not typical
Audacious : Daring; bold; n. audacity
Audit : Examination of accounts of a business; official examination; v.
Augment : Increase; add to
Augury : Omen; prophecy; sign of coming events; v. augur: predict; foretell; be a sign of (something in future)
August : Impressive; majestic
Aureole : Sun's corona; halo; bright circle of light
Auroral : Pertaining to the aurora borealis; cf. aurora australis
Auspicious : Favoring success; giving signs of future success; cf. auspices
Austere : Forbiddingly stern; ascetic; without comfort or enjoyment; severely simple and unornamented; ex. a monk's austere life; ex. austere grandeur of the cathedral; n. austerity
Authenticate : Prove genuine
Authoritarian : Subordinating the individual to the state; completely dominating another's will; ex. authoritarian regime/father
Authoritative : Having the weight of authority; regarded as providing knowledge that can be trusted; reliable; peremptory and dictatorial; ex. authoritative dictionary/manner; cf. definitive
Autocratic : Having absolute unchecked power; dictatorial; n. autocrat, autocracy
Automaton : Mechanism that imitates actions of humans; machine that works by itself
Autopsy : Examination of a dead body; postmortem; v.
Auxiliary : Offering or providing help; additional or subsidiary; n: helper; assistant
Avalanche : Great mass of falling snow and ice
Avantgarde : Group of artists whose work is based on the newest ideas and methods; cf. vanguard
Avarice : Greediness for wealth
Avenge : Take vengeance for something or on behalf of someone; ex. they avenged his death by burning the village; ex. he swore to avenge his brother; ex. they avenged themselves on their enemy.
Aver : State confidently; declare as true
Averse : Reluctant; disinclined; not liking or opposed; ex. averse to cats/doing the housework
Aversion : Firm dislike
Avert : Prevent; avoid; turn away (eyes or thought); ex. an accident was averted by his quick thinking; ex. she averted her eyes from the terrible sight.
Aviary : Enclosure for birds; large cage
Avid : Greedy; extremely eager for; ex. avid learner; n. avidity
Avocation : Secondary or minor occupation
Avow : Declare openly; n. avowal
Avuncular : Of or like an uncle
Awe : Solemn wonder; feeling of respect mixed with wonder and fear; v: fill with awe; adj. awesome
Awful : Terrible; very bad
Awl : Pointed tool used for piercing
Awry : Distorted; crooked; bent; ex. our plans have gone awry.
Axiom : Self-evident truth requiring no proof
Azure : Sky blue
Babble : Chatter idly or foolishly; make continuous sounds like water running gently over rounded stone; n.
Bacchanal : Noisy party with a lot of drinking
Bacchanalian : Drunken
Backslide : Revert (to bad habits); n. reverter
Backwards : And forwards; ex. reciprocate his invitation by inviting him; n. reciprocity: reciprocal relationship; mutual interchange of advantages between two groups; ex. reciprocity in trading rights
Badger : Pester; annoy continually with demands; persuade by asking again and again; ex. the children badgered me into taking them into the cinema; n: a kind of mountain animal
Badinage : Teasing conversation; banter; joking talk
Baffle : Frustrate; perplex
Bait : Harass; tease; torment; ex. badger baiting; n: food or other lure used to catch fish or trap animals
Baleful : Evil; malignant in intent or effect; deadly; having a malign influence; portending evil; ominous; threatening; ex. baleful look
Balk : Stop short, as if faced with an obstacle, and refuse to continue; foil; stop or get in the way of; frustrate
Ballast : Heavy substance used to add stability or weight; v. supply with ballast
Balm : Something that relieves pain; oily liquid with a pleasant smell from trees
Balmy : Soft and mild (of air); fragrant
Banal : Hackneyed; commonplace; trite; lacking originality; clich\'ed
Bandy : Discuss lightly or glibly; discuss in a frivolous manner; exchange (words) heatedly; quarrel; ex. bandy words with
Bane : Posion; cause of ruin; adj. baneful: harmful; poisonous
Bank : Heap; piled-up mass; embankment; lateral tilting (as of an aircraft in turning); v: pile up; protect with a bank; tilt in turning
Bantering : Joking talk; good-naturedly ridiculing; n.v. banter
Bar : Railing in a courtroom; legal profession; vertical line dividing a staff into equal measures; ex. prisoner at the bar; v: shut in or out with bars; forbid; exclude; cf. barrister
Barb : Sharp projection from fishhook, arrow, or other object; openly cutting remark
Bard : Poet
Barefaced : Shameless and noticeable; blatant; bold; unconcealed; having no covering on the face; ex. barefaced lie
Bargain : Agreement between two groups or people; something for sale at a price advantageous to the buyer; v: negotiate; trade; ex. bargaining power
Barrage : Barrier laid down by artillery fire; overwhelming profusion; large number of questions or statements; ex. a barrage of criticism
Barrister : Counselor-at-law or lawyer in the higher court of law; cf. bar
Barterer : Trader; v. barter: trade; exchange good for other goods rather than money
Base : Contemptible; morally bad; inferior in value or quality; ex. base motives/conduct; ex. base metal such as iron
Bask : Luxuriate; take pleasure in warmth
Bastard : Illegitimate child
Bastion : Stronghold; something seen as a source of protection; ex. the last bastion of male chauvinism
Bate : Let down; lessen the force of; moderate; restrain; ex. with bated breath; cf. abate
Battalion : Army unit made up of four or more companies
Bauble : Trinket; cheap jewel; trifle
Bawdy : Indecent; obscene; about sex in a rude funny way; cf. bawd
Bearing : Deportment; connection
Beatific : Giving or showing bliss; blissful
Beatitude : Blessedness; state of great happiness
Bedizen : Dress with vulgar finery
Bedraggle : Wet thoroughly; adj. bedraggled: draggled
Beeline : Direct quick route
Befuddle : Confuse thoroughly
Beget : Father; become the father of; produce; give rise to
Begrudge : Envy; give or allow unwillingly; grudge; ex. we shouldn't begrudge him his success.
Beguile : Deceive; mislead or delude; cheat; pass time pleasantly; charm or attract; ex. beguiling smile
Behemoth : Huge creature; something of monstrous size or power
Beholden : Obligated; indebted; owing thanks; obliged or indebted from gratitude
Behoove(behove) : Be suited to; be incumbent upon; be right and necessary; ex. it behooves one to do.
Belabor : Harp on; dwell on tediously; explain or go over excessively or to a ridiculous degree; assail verbally; beat severely; attack physically
Belated : Delayed
Belie : Contradict; give a false impression; disguise; ex. the poor sales belied our high hopes; ex. her smile belies her true feeling of displeasure.
Belittle : Disparage; depreciate
Bellicose : Warlike
Belligerent : Quarrelsome
Bemoan : Lament; moan for; express sorrow or disapproval of
Bemused : Confused; lost in thought; preoccupied
Benediction : Blessing
Benefactor : Gift giver; patron; person who does good or who gives money for a good purpose
Beneficent : Kindly; doing good
Beneficial : Helpful; useful; advantageous
Beneficiary : Person entitled to benefits or proceeds of an insurance policy or will
Benefit : Advantage; anything that brings helpl, advantage, or profit; money provided by the government to the people; fund-raising public entertainment; ex. unemployment benefit; v: receive benefits; be beneficial to; give benefits
Benevolent : Generous; charitable; having a wish to do good
Benign : Kindly; favorable; not malignant (disease); ex. benign tumor
Benison : Blessing
Bent : Determined; ex. bent on advancing in the business; n: natural talent or inclination
Bequeath : Leave to someone by means of a will; hand down in his will; n. bequest
Berate : Scold strongly
Bereaved : Deprived of (someone beloved through death)
Bereavement : State of being deprived of something valuable or beloved; state of being bereaved or bereft
Bereft : Deprived of (something valuable); lacking
Berserk : Mad with violent anger; frenzied; madly excited
Beseech : Beg; plead with
Beset : Harass or trouble from all directions; hem in
Besiege : Surround with armed forces; harass (with requests); annoy continually
Besmirch : Soil; defile; make dirty
Bestial : Beastlike; brutal; inhuman; very cruel
Betoken : Signify; indicate; be a sign of
Betray : Be unfaithful; reveal (unconsciously or unwillingly); ex. her trembling hands betray her anxiety.
Betroth : Become engaged to marry
Bevy : Large group; ex. a bevy of starlets
Beware : Be cautious (of)
Bewitch : Cast a spell over; captivate completely
Bicameral : Two-chambered as a legislative body
Bicker : Quarrel
Bid : Command; utter (a greeting); offer as a price; n: offer of a price; amount offered; earnest effort to gain something; ex. bid for freedom
Biennial : Every two years
Bifurcated : Divided into two branches; forked
Bigot : One who is intolerant (in matters of religion or politics)
Bigotry : Stubborn intolerance
Bilious : Suffering from indigestion; sick from having too much bile; irritable; easily irritated
Bilk : Swindle; cheat
Billow : Large wave of water; a great swell or surge (of smoke); v: surge, swell, roll in billows
Billowing : Swelling out in waves; surging
Biting : Sharply painful to the body or mind; ex. biting wind/remarks
Bitter : Having a sharp biting taste; æ•¬; causing sharp pain to the body or mind; filled with resentment, disappointment, or other unpleasant feelings; ex. bitter wind/sorrow/tears
Bivouac : Temporary encampment; camp without tents; v.
Bizarre : Fantastic; violently contrasting; noticeably odd; strikingly unconventional
Blackball : Vote against (an applicant); ostracize; n: negative vote
Blanch : Bleach; whiten; make white or pale
Bland : Soothing or mild (food); agreeable; causing no trouble or offence
Blandishment : Flattery
Blare : Loud or harsh roar or screech; dazzling blaze of light
Blase : Bored with pleasure or dissipation; uninterested or bored
Blatant : Extremely (offensively) obvious; loudly offensive; ex. blatant lie; n. blatancy
Bleak : Cold or cheerless; frigid; unlikely to be favorable; depressing
Blemish : Mar; spoil the beauty or perfection of; n: flaw or defect (that spoils perfection); ex. blemishes in the crystal; cf. unblemished
Blight : Plant disease; v: infect with blight; ruin; destroy
Blighted : Suffering from a disease; destroyed
Bliss : Complete happiness; adj. blissful
Blithe(blithesome) : Gay; joyous
Bloated : (unpleasantly) swollen or puffed as with water or air
Blotch : Spot; blot; cf. blot+botch
Blowhard : Talkative boaster; braggart
Bludgeon : Club; heavy-headed weapon; v.
Blue : Gloomy; depressed
Blues : State of depression or melancholy; style of slow, mournful music (evolved from southern black american songs)
Bluff : Pretense (of strength); deception; high cliff; adj: rough but good- natured
Blunder : Error; stupid mistake
Blunt : Having a dull edge; abrupt and frank in speech or manner; brusque; v: make or become blunt
Blurt : Utter impulsively from nervousness or excitement
Blush : Become red in the face (from embarrassment or shame); become red or rosy; n.
Bluster : Blow in heavy gusts; threaten emptily; bully; speak in a noisy or bullying manner; cf. breeze, gust, gale
Bode : Foreshadow; portend
Bog : Soft wet land; v: hinder or be hindered; ex. bogged down in the mud
Bogus : Counterfeit; not authentic; intentionally false; ex. bogus interview
Bohemian : Unconventional (in an artistic way)
Boisterous : Violent; rough; noisy
Bolster : Support; reinforce
Bombardment : Attack (as with missiles or bombs); v. bombard
Bombast : Grandiloquent, pompous speech
Bombastic : Pompous; using inflated language
Bookish : Fond of books and reading
Boon : Blessing; benefit; something very helpful
Boor : Rude, insensitive person
Boorish : Rude; insensitive
Boost : Lift by pushing up from below; increase; raise; n: push upward; increase
Botch : Mismanage; blow
Bouillon : Clear beef (or meat) soup
Bound : Leap or spring; limit or confine; constitute the limit of; ex. bounded by canada; n: leap or jumping; boundary; adj: certain; having a duty to do something (legally or morally); confined by bonds; ex. we are bound to be late; ex. i am bound to
Bountiful : Generous; graciously generous; showing bounty
Bourgeois : Middle class; selfishly materialistic; too interested in material possessions
Bout : Match; short period of great activity; ex. wrestling bout; bout of drinking/flu
Bovine : Cowlike; placid and dull; slow-thinking; calm
Bowdlerize : Expurgate; cf. thomas bowdler
Brackish : Somewhat saline
Brag : Boast
Braggadocio : Boasting
Braggart : Boaster; bragger
Braid : Plait; interweave strands or lengths of; make by weaving strands together; n: braided segment (as of hair)
Brand : Trademark; mark burned on the hide of an animal; mark burned into the flesh of criminals; mark of disgrace; v: mark with a brand; give a lasting bad name; stigmatize; ex. the press branded him a liar.
Brandish : Wave around (a weapon); flourish
Bravado : Swagger; assumed air of defiance; false show of bravery
Brave : Face courageously; ex. brave the storm
Brawl : Noisy quarrel
Brawn : Human muscle; muscular strength; sturdiness
Brazen : Insolent; without shame; bold; ex. brazen lie; v: face with bold self- assurance or with unshamed confidence
Breach : Breaking of contract or duty; fissure or gap; opening; v.
Breadth : Width; extent
Breed : Produce young; rear; bring up; produce (an undesirable condition); n: kind or sort of animal or plant
Brevity : Conciseness; shortness of duration
Bridle : Harness fitted about a horse's head (used to restrain); curb; check; v: put a bridle on; control or restrain; show anger
Brim : Uppermost edge of a cup; projecting rim (as on a hat); ex. the glass was full to the brim; v: be full to the brim
Brindled : Tawny or grayish with streaks or spots (of animals)
Brink : Edge (at the top of a cliff); ex. on the brink of the grand canyon
Brisk : Quick and active; marked by liveliness and vigor
Bristle : Short stiff hair; v: (hair or fur) stand up stiffly
Bristling : Rising like bristles; showing irritation
Brittle : Hard but easily broken; difficult; unstable; ex. brittle situation
Broach : Introduce as a subject; moot; open up
Brocade : Rich, figured(patterned) fabric
Brochure : Pamphlet
Broil : Cook by direct heat; n.
Bromide : Platitude; chemical compound used to calm excitement
Brooch : Ornamental clasp; pin
Brood : Sit on in order to hatch; think deeply or worry anxiously; n: the young of certain animals; group of young birds hatched at one time
Brook : Tolerate; endure; ex. brook no interference; n: small stream
Browbeat : Bully; intimidate
Browse : Graze; feed on growing grass; skim or glance at casually
Bruise : Injure without breaking the skin; n.
Brunt : Main impact or shock (of an attack or blow); ex. brunt of the argument
Brusque : Blunt; abrupt; curt; not wanting to waste time being nice
Buccaneer : Pirate
Bucolic : Rustic; pastoral
Buffoon : Stupid person; clown
Buffoonery : Clowning
Bugaboo : Bugbear; object of baseless terror
Bulge : Protruding part; swelling of a surface; ex. the apple made a bulge in his pocket; v: swell outward; protrude
Bulk : Size or volume (esp. when very large); main part; ex. the bulk of the work has already been done; adj. bulky: having great size
Bullion : Gold and silver in the form of bars
Bully : One who is habitually cruel to weaker people; v.
Bulwark : Strong wall built for defense; earthwork or other strong defense; person who defends
Bump : Hit or knock against with force; n.
Bungle : Mismanage; blunder; botch; blow; spoil by clumsy behavior
Buoyant : Able to float; cheerful and optimistic; n. buoyancy; ex. buoyancy of wood/water/american market
Bureaucracy : Overregulated administrative system marked by red tape; adj. bureaucratic
Burgeon : Grow rapidly; grow forth; send out buds; ex. burgeoning computer industry; cf. bludgeon
Burlesque : Give an imitation that ridicules; imitate mockingly
Burnish : Make shiny by rubbing; polish
Bust : Piece of sculpture showing a person's head, shoulders, and upper chest; v: break up; arrest; ex. crimebuster
Buttress : Support; prop up; n. stationary structure to support wall; ex. flying buttress
Cabal : Small group of persons secretly united to promote their own interests
Cache : Hiding place; v.
Cacophonous : Discordant; inharmonious; n. cacophony: unpleasant mixture of loud sounds
Cadaver : Corpse; dead human body
Cadaverous : Like a corpse; pale
Cadence : Rhythmic rise and fall (of words or sounds); beat; regular beat of sound; rhythm
Cadet : Student at a military school
Cajole : Persuade by praise or false promise; coax; wheedle
Calamity : Disaster; misery
Calculated : Deliberately planned; likely
Caldron(cauldron) : Large kettle
Caliber : Ability; quality; diameter of the inside of a round cylinder; ex. work of very high caliber
Calligraphy : Beautiful writing; excellent penmanship
Callous : Hardened; unfeeling; without sympathy for the sufferings of others; unkind
Callow : Youthful; immature; inexperienced
Callus : Area of thick hard skin
Calorific : Heat-producing; n. calorie
Calumny : Malicious misrepresentation; slander
Camaraderie : Good-fellowship; cf. comrade
Cameo : Shell or jewel carved in relief; star's special appearance in a minor role in a film
Camp : Group sharing a common cause or opinion
Canard : Unfounded false rumor; exaggerated false report
Candor : Frankness; open honesty; adj. candid
Canine : Related to dogs; doglike
Canker : Any ulcerous sore; ulcer; any evil; cf. cancer
Canny : Shrewd in money matters; thrifty
Cant : Insincere speech or expression of piety; jargon of thieves; special words used by a particular group of people
Cantankerous : Ill-humored; irritable
Cantata : Story set to music to be sung by a chorus (shorter than an oratorio)
Canter : Slow gallop; v. cf. trot
Canto : Division of a long poem
Canvass : Determine or seek opinions, votes, etc.; go through (a region) to solicit votes or orders; conduct a survey; n.
Capacious : Spacious
Capacity : Mental or physical ability; role; position or duty; ability to accommodate; ex. in my capacity as president
Capillary : Having a very fine bore; resembling a hair; fine and slender; ex. capillary attraction; n: very fine hairlike tube; cf. capillarity
Capitulate : Surrender; give up all resistance
Caprice : Whim; sudden change of mind without any real cause
Capricious : Unpredictable; fickle
Capsize : (of a boat) turn over
Caption : Title; chapter heading; text under illustration
Captious : Faultfinding; too critical
Carafe : Glass water bottle; decanter
Carapace : Shell covering the back (of a turtle, tortoise, crab, etc.)
Carat(karat) : Unit of weight for precious stones; measure of the purity of gold
Carcinogenic : Causing cancer; n. carcinogen
Cardinal : Chief; most important; n: priest; cardinal number: number that shows quantity rather thatn order
Cardiologist : Doctor specializing in ailments of the heart
Careen : Lurch; sway from side to side; move with irregular swinging movement; stagger
Career : Rush wildly; go at full speed
Carefree : Free from worries; having no problems
Caricature : Distortion; burlesque
Carillon : A set of bells (often in a tower) capable of being played
Carnage : Destruction of life; slaughter; killing of large numbers of people or animals
Carnal : Fleshly; sensual; concerning the desires of the body
Carnivorous : Meat-eating; n. carnivore; cf. herbivore
Carousal : Drunken revel; v. carouse
Carping : Petty criticism; fault-finding; fretful complaining; quibble
Carrion : Rotting flesh of a dead body; cf. vulture
Cartographer : Map-maker
Cascade : Small waterfall
Caste : One of the hereditary classes in hindu society; social stratification; prestige
Castigation : Punishment; severe criticism or disapproval
Castrate : Remove the sex organs (of a male animal or person)
Casual : Happening by chance; irregular; occasional; informal; showing or feeling little interest; ex. casual reader/labor/remark
Casualty : Serious or fatal accident; person killed or wounded in an accident or battle
Cataclysm : Deluge; upheaval; earthquake; violent and sudden event or change
Catalyst : Agent which brings about a chemical change while it remains unaffected and unchanged; cf. catalysis
Catapult : Slingshot; hurling machine; v: fire from catapult
Cataract : Great waterfall; eye abnormality (causing a gradual loss of eyesight)
Catastrophe : Calamity ; disaster
Catcall : Shout of disapproval or displeasure (made at the theater or a sports match); boo; v.
Catechism : Book for religious instruction in question-and-answer form; religious instruction by question and answer; v. catechize
Categorical : Without exceptions; made without any doubt in mind; unqualified; absolute
Cater : Provide food and drink (for); cater to: try to satisfy (desires of a bad kind)
Catharsis : Purging or cleansing of any passage of the body; purging and weakening of strong emotions as a result of experiencing a dramatic work of art
Cathartic : Purgative; medicine that causes the bowels to empty; adj.
Catholic : (of likings and interests) universal; general; broad; including many different parts; wide-ranging liberal; ex. catholic opinions/tastes
Caulk(calk) : Make watertight (by blocking up cracks as in a ship)
Causal : Implying a cause-and-effect relationship; n. causality
Caustic : Burning; corrosive; able to burn by chemical action; sarcastically biting; (of remarks) intended to hurt; bitter; harmful; op. harmless
Cauterize : Burn (a wound or snakebite, etc.) with hot iron or caustic substance to stop bleeding and prevent infection
Cavalcade : Procession of riders or horse-drawn carriages; parade; cf. cavalry
Cavalier : Casual and offhand; arrogant; n: knight
Cavil : Quibble; make frivolous objections; find fault unnecessarily
Cede : Yield (title or territory) to (esp. after losing a war); surrender formally; n. cession
Celerity : Speed; rapidity
Celestial : Heavenly
Celibate : Abstaining from sexual intercourse; unmarried; n. celibacy
Cemetery : Place for burying the dead
Censor : (in ancient rome) overseer of morals (also taking the census); person who eliminates inappropriate matter; v.
Censorious : Severely critical
Censure : Blame; criticize; express strong disapproval; n: severe criticism; strong disapproval
Centaur : Mythical figure, half man and half horse
Centigrade : Denoting a widely used temperature scale (basically same as celsius)
Centrifugal : Radiating; departing from the center
Centrifuge : Machine that separates substances by whirling them
Centripetal : Tending toward the center
Centurion : Roman army officer (commanding a company of about 100 soldiers)
Cerebral : Pertaining to the brain or intellect; intellectual rather than emotional; cf. cerebrum
Cerebration : Thought; working of the brain
Ceremonious : Marked by formality; extremely formal and polite; cf. ceremony: conventional social courtesy
Certitude : Certainty
Cessation : Stoppage
Cession : Yielding to another; ceding
Chafe : Warm by rubbing; make sore by rubbing; n.
Chaff : Worthless products of an endeavor; husk(outer seed cover) separated from grain; ex. separate the wheat from the chaff
Chaffing : Bantering; joking
Chagrin : Annoyance and disappointment; vexation (caused by humiliation or injured pride)
Chalice : Goblet; consecrated cup
Chameleon : Lizard that changes color in different situations
Champion : Support militantly; fight for; n: person who fights for or supports strongly (a principle, movement, person, etc.)
Championship : Position of champion; defense or support; competition held to determine a champion
Chancellor : Legal official of high rank; cf. chancellery(chancellory): position of a chancellor
Chant : Tune(melody) in which a number of words are sung on the same note; v: sing (a chant); utter (a slogan) in the manner of a chant
Chaotic : In utter disorder
Chapel : Small church (in a prison, college, or hospital)
Chaperon : Older person who accompanies and supervises a young unmarried woman
Chaplain : Clergyman attached to a chapel
Char : Make or become black by burning; reduce or be reduced to carbon or charcoal(black substance made by burning wood) by incomplete combustion
Charisma : Divine gift; great popular charm or appeal; magnetism
Charlatan : Quack; pretender to knowledge (esp. in medicine)
Charm : Quality of pleasing; amulet; action or formula thought to have magical power; spell; v: attract; cast a spell on; bewitch
Chary : Cautious; unwilling to take risks; sparing or restrained about giving; op. bold
Chase : Ornament a metal surface by indenting; follow rapidly to catch
Chassis : Framework and working parts of an automobile; framework to which components are attached
Chaste : Morally pure; virginal; abstaining from illicit sexual acts; modest; simple (of a style of writing); not highly decorated; austere
Chasten : Discipline; punish in order to correct; cf. castigate
Chastise : Punish as by beating; criticize severely
Chauvinist : Blindly devoted patriot; zealous adherent of a group, cause, or sex; adj. chauvinistic; cf. chauvinism; nicolas chauvin
Check : Stop motion; curb or restrain
Checkered(chequered) : Marked by great changes in fortune; with many changes of fortuene; cf. checked: having a pattern of squares
Cherubic : Angelic; innocent-looking; n. cherub; cf. seraph: winged angel of the highest order
Chicanery : Trickery; deception
Chide : Scold; rebuke (someone who has done wrong)
Chimerical : Fantastically improbable; highly unrealistic; n. chimera: unreal fancy; fire-breathing female creature
Chip : Lose a small piece from the surface or edge; n: small piece broken off something; cf. french fry; potato chip/crisp
Chisel : Swindle or cheat; n: wedgelike tool for cutting
Chivalrous : Courteous; faithful; brave; n. chivalry
Choice : Delicate; of very fine quality
Choir : Group of people who sing together (esp. during religious services); place for choir
Choleric : Hot-tempered; bad-tempered; irritable; easily angered; cf. cholera
Chore : Daily domestic task (such as cleaning, cooking, and shopping); unpleasant task
Choreography : Art of representing dances in written symbols; arrangement of dances
Chortle : Chuckle with delight; n.
Chorus : Phrase repeated throughout a song or poem
Chronic : Long established as a disease
Chronicle : Report; record (in chronological order)
Chuckle : Laugh quietly
Churlish : Boorish; rude; n. churl: boor; yahoo
Ciliated : Having minute hairs; cf. cilium; cf. cilia: eyelash
Cipher : Nonentity; worthless person or thing; zero; secret code; v.
Circlet : Small ring; band of gold, silver, jewel, etc. (worn on the head, arms, or neck as decoration)
Circuit : Closed circular line around an area; circumference; regularly repeated journey from place to place
Circuitous : Roundabout
Circumlocution : Indirect or roundabout expression (by using an uncecessarily large number of words esp. when trying to avoid answering a difficult question directly)
Circumscribe : Limit; confine; draw a line around
Circumspect : Prudent; cautious; acting after careful thought
Circumvent : Outwit; defeat by behaving more cleverly; outsmart; baffle; avoid; get around
Cistern : Reservoir or water tank
Citadel : Fortress
Cite : Quote; commend; ex. cited for bravery in an official record
Civil : Having to do with citizens; not military or religious; courteous and polite; ex. married in a civil ceremony; ex. civil strife/disorder/law; n. civility; cf. civic
Clairvoyant : Having foresight; fortuneteller; n. clairvoyance
Clamber : Climb by crawling with difficulties; scramble
Clamor : Loud continous noise; continuous demand or complaint made by a large number of people; v: make a clamor; express (a demand) continually and loudly; adj. clamorous
Clandestine : Secret
Clangor : Loud resounding noise; sound of repeated clanging
Clap : Strike the palms of the hands together with a sudden explosive sound; come together suddenly with a sharp sound; put or send promptly; ex. clap the thief in jail; n: clapping; loud or explosive sound; cf. applause
Clapper : Striker (tongue) of a bell
Clarion : Shrill, trumpetlike sound; kind of trumpet used in former times
Claustrophobia : Fear of being locked in
Clavicle : Collarbone
Cleave : Split or sever; cling to; remain faithful to; n. cleavage; adj. cloven
Cleft : N: split
Clemency : Disposition to be lenient in deciding punishments; mildness as of the weather; adj. clement
Clich\'e : Phrase dulled in meaning by repetition; platitude; adj. clich\'ed
Clientele : Body of customers
Climactic : Relating to the highest point; n. climax; cf. climatic
Clime : Climate
Clip : Cut off with shears; fasten; n: something clipped off (as a short extract from film); clasp or fastener
Clipper : Sailing vessel built for great speed
Clique : Small exclusive group of people
Cloister : Monastery or convent
Clot : Half-solid lump formed from a liquid (or blood); v.
Clout : Great influence (especially political or social); hard blow with fist
Clown : Act stupidly; play the fool; n.
Cloying : Distasteful (because excessive); excessively sweet or sentimental; v. cloy: become unpleasant through too much sweetness or excess
Coagulate : Congeal; thicken; clot; n. coagulant
Coalesce : Combine; fuse; n. coalescence
Coalition : Partnership; league; union of separate political parties
Coax : Persuade by flattery
Coda : Concluding section of a musical or literary composition
Coddle : Treat gently; indulge excessively; pamper; mollycoddle; baby; cook in water just below boiling point; ex. coddled eggs
Codicil : Supplement to the body of a will; later addition to a will
Coercion : Use of force to get someone to object; compelling; v. coerce
Coeval : Living at the same time as; existing during the same period of time; contemporary; of the same age
Cog : Tooth projecting from a wheel
Cogent : Convincing
Cogitate : Think over; ponder
Cognate : Having a common origin; related linguistically; allied by blood; similar or akin in nature; ex. cognate languages; n.
Cognitive : Having to do with knowing or perceiving related to the mental processes; n. cognition: the mental process of knowing
Cognizance : Knowledge; adj. cognizant; having knowledge; aware
Cohabit : Live together
Cohere : Stick together
Cohesion : Tendency to keep together
Cohorts : Group of people who share some common quality; armed band; a group of between 300 and 600 soldiers under one commander (in the ancient rome)
Coiffure : Hairstyle
Coin : Make coins; invent or fabricate (a word or phrase); n. coinage: word or phrase recently invented
Coincidence : The chance occurrence, at the same time, of two or more seemingly connected events; v. coincide: happen at the same time; be in agreement; cf. coincident; cf. coincidental
Colander : Utensil with perforated bottom used for straining
Collaborate : Work together; cooperate treasonably with the enemy
Collage : Work of art put together from fragments
Collate : Examine and compare in order to verify authenticity; arrange in order (the sheets of a book before they are bound)
Collateral : Security given for loan; adj: secondary; descended from the same person but through different sons or daughters
Collation : A light meal; collating
Collected : Composed; calm; self-possessed
Colloquial : Pertaining to conversational or common speech; informal; n. colloquialism: colloquial expression
Colloquy : Informal discussion; conversation
Collusion : Conspiring in a fraudulent scheme to cheat or deceive others;
Colossal : Huge
Colossus : Gigantic statue; person or thing of great size or importance
Coma : Deep prolonged unconsciousness caused by disease, poison, or a severe blow
Comatose : In a coma; extremely sleepy
Combustible : Easily burned; n. cf. combustion
Comeback : Retort; quick clever reply; return to former status
Comely : Attractive; agreeable; having a pleasing appearance
Comestible : Something fit to be eaten
Comeuppance : Deserts; well-deserved punishment or misfortune; rebuke
Comity : Courtesy; civility; ex. comity of nations
Commandeer : Take (private property) for military use without needing permission or giving payment; draft for military purposes
Commemorate : Honor the memory of; serve as a memorial to; ex. commemorate the 100th anniversary/those who died in the war
Commemorative : Remembering; honoring the memory of; ex. commemorative stamp
Commensurate : Equal in extent; of the same size
Commiserate : Feel or express pity or sympathy for
Commodious : Spacious and comfortable
Commonplace : Ordinary; n: something ordinary or common; trite remark
Commonwealth : Nation governed by the people; republic; people of a nation
Communal : Held in common; public; of a group of people; of a commune
Commune : Small (often rural) community whose members share work and income; v: exchange thoughts or feelings; ex. commune with nature
Compact : Agreement; contract; adj: tightly packed; firm; brief; concise; ex. compact statement
Compartment : One of the parts into which an enclosed space is divided
Compassion : Sympathy for the suffering of others; adj. compassionate
Compatible : Harmonious; in harmony with; able to exist together
Compendium : Brief, comprehensive summary; adj. compendious
Compensatory : Making up for; repaying
Compilation : Listing of information in tabular or book form; compiling
Compile : Assemble; gather; accumulate; make (a report or a book) from facts and information found in various places; ex. compile a dictionary
Complacency : Self-satisfaction; smugness; adj. complacent
Complaisant : Trying to please; obliging; willing to please others
Complement : Complete; consummate; make perfect; n.
Complementary : Serving to complete something
Compliance : Conformity in fulfilling requirements; readiness to yield; disposition to yield to others; v. comply
Compliant : Readily acting in accordance with a rule, order, or the wishes or others; yielding; comforming to requirements
Complicity : Participation; involvement (in a questionable act or a crime)
Component : Element; ingredient
Comport : Bear one's self; behave; ex. comport oneself; n. comportment
Compost : Mixture of decaying organic matter used as fertilizer; v: put or make compost
Composure : Mental calmness
Compound : Combine; produce by combining; increase; make worse by adding to or increasing; exacerbate; ex. compound an error; adj: consisting of two or more parts; n: combination of two or more parts; area enclosed by a wall containing a group of buildings;
Comprehend : Include; understand
Comprehensive : Broad; including a lot or everything; thorough; inclusive
Compress : Force into less space; squeeze; contract; put into fewer words; n: thick mass of cloth pressed to part of the body to stop bleeding or swelling, reduce fever, etc.
Comprise : Include; consist of
Compromise : Adjust or settle by making mutual concessions; endanger the interests or reputation of; put into danger, disrepute, or a dishonorable position; ex. compromise one's principle; n.
Compulsive : Resulting from compulsion
Compulsory : Obligatory; that must be done
Compunction : Remorse; strong uneasiness caused by guilt
Compute : Reckon; calculate
Concatenate : Link as in a chain
Concave : Hollow; curved inwards; op. convex
Concede : Admit; acknowledge as being true (often reluctantly); yield; grant; ex. concede a goal
Conceit : Vanity or self-love; too high opinion of one's own value; extravagant metaphor (in poetry)
Concentric : Having a common center
Conception : Beginning; forming of an idea; fertilization; v. conceive: form an idea in the mind; devise; become pregnant; cf. inception
Concerted : Mutually agreed on; done together by agreement; ex. concerted effort; cf. in concert: working together
Concession : An act of yielding; conceding; something conceded; point, right, etc. given unwillingly; privilege of maintaining a business in a certain place; ex. oil concessions in the north sea; cf. concessionaire
Conciliatory : Reconciling; soothing; v. conciliate: reconcile; soothe; win the friendly feelings (by removing anger)
Concise : Brief and compact
Conclave : Private secret meeting
Conclusive : Decisive; ending all debate
Concoct : Prepare by mixing or combining; make up in concert; devise (something false) so as to deceive; ex. concoct an elaborate excuse for being late; n. concoction
Concomitant : That which accompanies; ex. deafnes is a frequent concommitant of old age; adj: existing or happening together with something else
Concord : Harmony; accord
Concordat : Formal agreement
Concur : Agree; coincide; happen at the same time
Concurrent : Happening at the same time; in agreement
Condign : Adequate; (of punishment) severe and well deserved
Condiments : Seasonings; spices
Condole : Express condolences; n. condolence: sympathy for someone who has experienced great sorrow
Condone : Overlook; forgive; give tacit approval; excuse
Conducive : Helpful; contributive; v. conduce; ex. conduce to/towards
Conduit : Aqueduct; passageway for fluids
Confidant(confidante) : Trusted friend (to whom one tells one's secret)
Confide : Tell in confidence (to a person one trusts); be confident about
Confidence : Self-assurance; calm unworried feeling based on a strong belief in one's abilities; strong belief in the ability of a person or plan; trust or faith in a person or thing; something confided; secret; ex. confidence in your ability; ex. i'm telling yo
Confidential : Spoken or written in secret; trusted with private matters; ex. confidential secretary
Confine : Shut in an enclosed space; restrict; keep within limits; n. confinement
Confiscate : Seize; take possession of (private property) by official order (usu. as a punishment); commandeer
Conflagration : Great fire
Confluence : Flowing together; the place where two rivers flow together; crowd; gathering together
Conformist : Person who uncritically conforms to the customs of a group; op. nonconformist: one who does not conform to accepted beliefs of norms
Conformity : Harmony; agreement with established rules or customs; similarity; ex. behave in conformity with; v. conform: be similar; act in agreement; comply; ex. conform to the rule; cf. conformance
Confound : Confuse; puzzle
Congeal : Freeze; coagulate
Congenial : Pleasant; friendly; in agreement with one's tastes and nature; ex. congenial weather
Congenital : Existing at birth
Conglomeration : Mass of material sticking together
Congruence : Correspondence of parts; harmonious relationship; cf. congruity
Congruent : In agreement; harmonious; corresponding; coinciding exactly; cf. congruous
Conifer : Pine tree (usu. evergreen); cone-bearing tree; adj. coniferous; cf. deciduous; cf. evergreen
Conjecture : Surmise; guess; v.
Conjugal : Pertaining to marriage
Conjure : Cause to appear by magic; summon (a devil or a spirit) by magical power; practice magic (esp. by very quick movement of the hands); evoke; conjure up: bring into the mind; ex. the magician conjured a rabbit out of his hat.
Connivance : Pretense of ignorance of something wrong; assistance; permission to offend; v. connive: feign ignorance (of a wrong); cooperate secretly in an illegal action; conspire
Connoisseur : Person competent to act as a judge of art, etc. (whose judgments are respected); a lover of an art
Connotation : Suggested or implied meaning of an expression; v. connote
Connubial : Pertaining to marriage or the matrimonial state
Consanguineous(consanguine) : Having a common ancestor
Consanguinity : Kinship; relationship by birth
Conscientious : Scrupulous; through and careful; ex. conscientious worker
Conscript : Draftee; person forced into military service; v.
Consecrate : Dedicate; sanctify; declare as sacred; ex. consecrate one's life to helping the poor
Consensus : General agreement; opinion reached by a group
Consequential : Self-important; significant; consequent; following as a result; ex. consequential air; cf. subsequent
Conservatory(conservatoire) : School of the fine arts (especially music or drama); glass- enclosed area; cf. conservancy
Consign : Send to a person or place for sale; deliver officially; entrust; put into the care of another; set apart (for a special purpose); n. consignment; cf. consignor, consignee
Consistency : Absence of contradictions; uniformity; degree of thickness or firmness; ex. consistency of thick cream; cf. viscous
Consolidation : Unification; process of becoming firmer or stronger; v. consolidate: merge; strengthen
Consonance : Harmony; agreement
Consonant : Harmonious; in agreement; n.
Consort : Associate with; keep company; n: husband or wife (or a ruler)
Conspiracy : Treacherous plot; secret plan against the law (by two or more people)
Conspire : Take part in a conspiracy; (of events) work together; combine; ex. events conspired to produce great difficulties.
Consternation : Great shock; dismay
Constituency : Voters represented by an elected official; district so represented; group of supporters (or constituents)
Constituent : Supporter; voter; member of a constituency; component
Constitution : Constituting; system of laws; composition of something; physical makeup or structure of a person; ex. men with strong constitutions
Constraint : Restraint; compulsion; repression of feelings; reticence; v. constrain: hold back; restrain; compel; oblige; confine forcibly; imprison
Construe : Explain; interpret; ex. construe her silence as meaning that she agreed; cf. misconstrue
Consummate : Complete; v.
Contagion : Infection (by contact); adj. contagious; cf. infectious: that can be passed by infection in the air
Contaminate : Pollute
Contempt : Scorn; disdain; adj. contemptuous; cf. contemptible
Contend : Struggle; compete; assert earnestly; state strongly
Contention : Assertion; claim; thesis; struggling; competition
Contentious : Quarrelsome; controversial; likely to cause arguments
Contest : Dispute; argue about the rightness of; compete for; try to win; ex. contest the election results; ex. contest a seat in parliament; n.
Context : Writings preceding and following the passage quoted; circumstance in which an event occurs
Continence : Self-restraint; sexual chastity; sexual abstinence; voluntary control over bladder and bowel functions; adj. continent
Contingent : Dependent on something uncertain or in the future; conditional; happening by chance; accidental; n: a group of soldiers, ships to a larger force; cf. contingency: future event that may or may not occur; possibility; ex. prepare for every contingency
Contortions : Twistings; distortions; v. contort: twist violently out of shape; cf. contortionist
Contraband : Illegal trade; smuggling; smuggled goods; adj.
Contravene : Contradict; oppose; violate (a rule, law, or custom); n. contravention
Contrite : Penitent; repentant; n. contrition
Contrivance : Something contrived; machine or apparatus; clever deceitful plan; scheme
Contrive : Invent or fabricate in a clever way (by improvisation); manage; ex. contrive to attract his attention
Contrived : Unnatural and forced; artificial; not spontaneous; ex. the ending was rather contrived.
Controvert : Oppose with arguments; attempt to refute; contradict; adj. controversial; n. controversy
Contumacious : Stubborn and disobedient; resisting authority (esp. disobedient to an order made by a court)
Contusion : Bruise
Conundrum : Riddle; difficult problem
Convene : Come together; assemble; call to meet; ex. convene the council
Convention : Social or moral custom; established practice; formal meeting; international agreement
Conventional : Ordinary; typical; not nuclear; ex. conventional weapons
Converge : Approach; tend to meet; come together
Conversant : Familiar with; having knowledge of
Converse : Opposite; adj.
Convert : One who has adopted a different religion or opinion; v: change into another form; (persuade to) adopt a particular religion or belief
Conveyance : Vehicle; transfer; act of conveying; ex. public conveyance
Conviction : Judgment that someone is guilty of a crime; strongly held belief
Convivial : Pleasantly merry; festive; joyous; gay; characterized by joviality; jovial
Convoke : Call together; ex. convoke parliament; n. convocation
Convoluted : Coiled around; twisted; involved; complicated; intricate; complex; n. convolution: twist; one of the convex folds of the surface of the brain
Convulsion : Violent uncontrollable shaking movement (caused by illness); v. convulse; adj. convulsive
Copious : Plentiful
Coquette : Flirt; flirtatious woman; woman who tries to attract the admiration of men without sincere feelings; v.
Cordial : Warmly friendly; gracious; heartfelt; ex. cordial welcome
Cordon : Extended line of men or fortifications to prevent access or egress; v.
Cornice : Projecting molding on building (usually above columns or pillars);
Cornucopia : Horn (or horn-shaped container) overflowing with fruit and grain; symbol of abundance; horn of plenty
Corollary : Natural consequence (which naturally follows from something else)
Coroner : Public official who investigates any death thought to be of other than natural causes
Corporeal : Bodily (rather than spiritual); of a bodily form; material; tangible
Corpulent : Very fat; n. corpulence
Corpus : Collection (of writings or information); ex. the corpus of shakespear's works; cf. corpse
Corpuscle : Red or white cell in the blood
Correlate : Either of the correlated things; v.
Correlation : Mutual relationship
Corroborate : Confirm; support; strengthen
Corrode : Destroy or wear away gradually by chemical action (over a long period)
Corrugated : Wrinkled; ridged
Cosmic : Pertaining to the universe; vast
Coterie : Group that meets socially; select circle; close group of people with shared interests
Countenance : Approve; support; tolerate; ex. countenance his rude behavior; n: face; appearance
Countermand : Cancel; revoke (an order)
Counterpart : Thing that completes another; things very much alike; thing that has the same purpose in a different system
Coup : Highly successful action or sudden attack; coup(s) d'\'etat; cf. coup de gr\^ace: deathblow or shot which kills
Couple : Join; unite; op. uncouple
Courier : Messenger
Court : Attempt to gain; seek; woo; risk; behave so as to invite; attempt to gain the favor of by attention; ex. court disaster
Covenant : Binding agreement between two groups or people; compact; v: enter into a covenant; promise
Covert : Secret; hidden; implied; op. overt
Covetous : Avaricious; desirous of (someone else's possessions); v. covet: desire eagerly (someone else's possessions)
Cow : Terrorize; intimidate
Cower : Shrink quivering as from fear; cringe
Coy : Shy (flirtatiously); showing a (pretended) lack of self-confidence; modest; coquettish; cf. job offer
Cozen : Cheat; hoodwink; swindle
Crabbed : Sour; bad-tempered; peevish; difficult to read as handwriting
Craft : Skill (esp. with one's hands); skill in deceiving people; guile; adj. crafty: cleverly deceitful; cunning
Crass : Very unrefined; grossly insensible; crude and undiscriminating; ex. crass behavior
Crave : Desire; want intensely
Craven : Cowardly
Credence : Belief
Credo : Creed
Credulity : Belief on slight evidence; gullibility; naivet\'e; adj. credulous
Creed : System of religious or ethical belief
Creep : Move with body close to the ground; move stealthily or slowly; n.
Cremate : Incinerate (a corpse); n. crematory, crematorium
Crescendo : Increase in the volume or intensity as in a musical passage; climax; cf. crescent
Crest : Top (as of a hill or wave); showy feathers on the head of a bird
Crestfallen : Dejected; dispirited
Crevice : Crack; fissure
Cringe : Shrink back as if in fear; cower
Crinkle : Wrinkle
Criteria : Standards used in judging; cf. criterion
Crochet : Make (a piece of needlework) by looping thread with a hooked needle; n. cf. crotchet
Crone : Hag; ugly old woman
Cross : Bad-tempered; showing ill-humor; angry
Crossbreed : Hybridize; n: hybrid; cf. interbreed; cf. inbreed
Crotchety : (of someone old) eccentric; odd; whimsical; bad-tempered; n. crotchet: odd or whimsical notion
Crust : Hard outer covering (as of earth or snow)
Crux : Essential or main point; ex. the crux of the problem; adj. crucial: of deciding importance
Crypt : Secret recess or vault usually used for burial; underground room (under a church)
Cryptic : Mysterious; hidden; secret
Cubicle : Small chamber used for sleeping or work
Cue : Word or signal (as in a play to prompt another actor's speech or entrance); reminder or hint; v: give a cue to
Cuisine : Style of cooking; ex. french cuisine
Culinary : Relating to cooking or kitchen
Cull : Pick out from others (to kill the weakest members); reject; select; collect (information); n.
Culmination : Highest point; climax; v. culminate in: reach the highest point
Culpable : Deserving blame; blameworthy
Culprit : One guilty of a crime
Culvert : Artificial channel for water; drain crossing under a road
Cumbersome : Heavy and awkward to carry or wear; burdensome; ex. cumbersome parcel/uniform
Cumulative : Growing by addition; accumulative
Cunning : Clever in deceiving; sly; n: cleverness in deceiving; deceit
Cupidity : Greed (for wealth); cf. cupid; cf. cupid
Curator : Superintendent; manager (in charge of a museum or a library)
Curb : Chain or strap used with a bit to restrain a horse; something that checks; v: check; restrain
Curfew : Regulation requiring all people to leave the streets at stated times; signal (as a bell) announcing the hour of a curfew
Curmudgeon : Churlish, miserly individual; bad-tempered old person
Cursive : (of writing) flowing; running; having the successive letters joined
Cursory : Casual; hastily done with little attention to detail
Curtail : Shorten; reduce
Cynical : Skeptical or distrustful of human motives; n. cynicism; cf. cynic: person who believes all people are motivated by selfishness
Cynosure : Object of general attention; person or thing that is a center of attention; cf. ursa minor
Dabble : Work at in a nonserious fashion; splash around; move noisily in a liquid
Dainty : Delicate; delicately beautiful; fastidious; not easy to please; ex. dainty movement/dress
Dais : Raised platform for speakers or other important people
Damn : Condemn; criticize severely; condemn to everlasting punishment; doom; bring to ruin; n. damnation
Dank : Damp; unpleasantly wet
Dapper : Neat and trim (in appearance); (of small men) neat in appearance and quick in movements; neat; spry
Dappled : Spotted
Dart : Move or throw suddenly and quickly
Daub : Smear (as with paint); cover with something sticky; ex. daub one's clothes with mud/paint; n: small bit of sticky substance; ex. a daub of paint
Daunt : Intimidate; frighten; discourage; dishearten
Dauntless : Bold; fearless
Dawdle : Loiter; hang around; waste time doing nothing
Daze : Stun as with a blow or shock; bemuse; benumb; n.
Dazzle : Make blind with a sudden intense light; amaze; fill with wonder
Deadlock : Standstill resulting from the opposition of two unrelenting forces; stalemate
Deadpan : Wooden; impassive; with no show of feeling; with an expressionless face
Dearth : Scarcity
Debacle : Sudden disastrous downfall or defeat; complete disaster
Debar : Bar; forbid; exclude; ex. debarred from jury services
Debase : Degrade; reduce in quality or value; degenerate; lower in esteem; disgrace; n. debasement
Debauch : Corrupt morally; seduce from virtue; n. debauchery: wild behavior (with sex and alcohol)
Debilitate : Weaken (esp. through heat, hunger, illness); enfeeble
Debonair : (of men) friendly, charming, and fashionably dressed; aiming to please; cf. of good disposition
Debris : Rubble; wreckage; scattered remains of something broken or destroyed
Debunk : Expose as false, exaggerated, worthless, etc.; ridicule
Debut : D\'ebut; first public appearance; formal presentation of a young woman to society
Debutante : Young woman making formal entrance into society
Decant : Pour off gently (wine or liquid)
Decapitate : Behead
Decelerate : Slow down
Deciduous : Falling off at a specific season or stage of growth as of leaves; ex. deciduous tree/teeth
Decimate : Kill (usually one out of ten or every tenth man); destroy or kill a large part of
Decipher : Decode; cf. indecipherable
Declivity : Downward slope
Decollete : (of a dress) having a low-cut neckline; cf. d\'ecolletage: low neckline (on a dress)
Decomposition : Decay; v. decompose: decay; break and separate into simple parts
Decorous : Proper (in behavior, conduct, or appearance)
Decorum : Propriety; orderliness and good taste in manners; appropriateness of behavior or conduct
Decoy : Lure or bait; v.
Decree : Authoritative order; edict; judgment of a court of law; v: order or judge by decree
Decrepit : Weak and in bad condition from old age or hard use; ex. decrepit old chair/man
Decrepitude : State of collapse or weakness caused by illness or old age
Decry : Express strong disapproval of; condemn openly (something dangerous to the public); disparage; ex. decry the violence of modern films
Deducible : Derived by reasoning; v. deduce: infer; derive by reasoning
Deface : Mar; disfigure
Defalcate : Embezzle
Defame : Harm someone's reputation; malign; speak evil of; slander; n. defamation; adj. defamatory
Default : Failure to act; failure to perform a task or be present; v.
Defeatist : Resigned to defeat or failure; accepting defeat or failure as a natural outcome; n. cf. defeatism
Defect : Shortcoming; v: desert (in order to join the opposite one)
Defection : Desertion
Defer : Give in respectfully; submit; delay till later; exempt temporarily; n. deferment; cf. show respect, comply with, courteous
Deference : Courteous regard for another's wish; courteous yielding to another's wish or opinion (showing respect); adj. deferential; op. effrontery
Defiance : Refusal to yield; resistance; v. defy; adj. defiant
Defile : Pollute; make filthy or dirty; corrupt morally; profane; desecrate; n: narrow passage or gorge through mountains
Definitive : Most reliable; authorative and complete; that cannot be improved; conclusive; decisive; definite; ex. definitive decision by the supreme court
Deflect : Turn aside; turn away from a straight course
Defoliate : Destroy leaves; deprive of leaves (by the use of chemicals); n. defoliant
Defray : Provide for the payment of; undertake the payment of; pay
Defrock : Strip a priest or minister of church authority; unfrock
Deft : Neat; skillful
Defunct : Dead; no longer in use or existence
Degenerate : Become worse in quality; deteriorate; adj: having become worse; ex. a degenerate species; n: depraved or corrupt person
Degradation : Humiliation; debasement; degeneration; v. degrade: debase; disgrace; degenerate; reduce (something) in worth; demote (someone); reduce in rank
Dehydrate : Remove water from; dry out
Deify : Turn into a god; make a god of; idolize; ex. kings were deified; cf. deity
Deign : Condescend; stoop
Delete : Erase; strike out
Deleterious : Harmful
Deliberate : Consider; ponder; adj: done on purpose; slow
Delineate : Portray; depict; sketch; describe; n. delineation
Delirium : Mental disorder marked by confusion; uncontrolled excitement; adj. delirious
Delta : Flat plain of mud or sand between branches of a river
Delude : Deceive
Deluge : Flood; rush; v.
Delusive : Deceptive; likely to delude; misleading; raising vain hopes; ex. delusive promises
Delve : Dig; search deeply; investigate
Demagogue : Person who appeals to people's prejudice; false leader of people; cf. demagoguery
Demean : Disgrace; humiliate; debase in dignity; behave
Demeanor : Behavior; bearing
Demented : Insane
Demerit : Fault; bad quality
Demise : Death
Demographic : Related to population balance; n. demography: statistical study of human population
Demolition : Destruction; v. demolish
Demoniac(demoniacal) : Fiendish; cruel; n. demon: evil supernatural being; devil
Demotic : Of or pertaining to the people
Demur : Object (because of doubts, scruples); raise an objection (showing qualms); hesitate; ex. demur at the idea of working on sunday
Demure : (of a woman or child) grave; quiet and serious; coy; pretending to be demure
Denigrate : Blacken; defame
Denizen : (animal, person, or plant) inhabitant or resident of a particular place; regular visitor
Denomination : Religious group; unit in a system; name or designation; cf. denominator: common trait or characteristic
Denotation : Meaning; distinguishing by name; v. denote: indicate; refer to directly; mean; cf. connotation
Denouement : Final outcome; final development of the plot of a play or other literary work; the end of a story when everything is explained
Denounce : Condemn; criticize; n. denunciation
Depict : Portray
Deplete : Reduce; exhaust
Deplore : Regret; express sorrow and severe disapproval for something bad; ex. deplore their violent behavior; adj. deplorable: very bad; deserving severe disapproval; ex. deplorable living condition
Deport : Send out of the country; behave; n. deportation, deportment
Depose : Dethrone; remove from office; give a deposition; testify
Deposition : Testimony under oath; deposing; dethroning
Depravity : Extreme corruption; wickedness; v. deprave
Deprecate : Express disapproval of; deplore; protest against; belittle; adj. deprecatory
Depreciate : Lessen in value; belittle; represent as of little value
Depredation : Plundering; destruction
Deputize : Work or appoint as a deputy; n. deputy: person who has the power to take charge when the leading person is away
Deranged : Insane
Derelict : Negligent; (of someone) neglectful of duty; (of something) deserted by an owner; abandoned; n: abandoned property; homeless or vagrant person
Dereliction : Neglect of duty; abandonment
Deride : Ridicule; treat with contempt; make fun of; op. respect
Derision : Ridicule; adj. derisive; cf. derisory
Derivation : Deriving; origin or source of something; ex. the derivation of the word
Derivative : Unoriginal; obtained from another source; ex. derivative prose style; n.
Dermatologist : One who studies the skin and its diseases
Derogatory : Expressing a low opinion; disparaging; v. derogate: detract; disparage
Descry : Catch sight of (something distant)
Desecrate : Profane; violate the sanctity of
Deserts : What someone deserves
Desiccate : Dry up
Desolate : Make desolate; forsake; abandon and desert
Desperado : Reckless, desperate outlaw
Desperate : Having lost all hope; despairing; reckless and violent because of loss of hope or despair; undertaken as a last resort
Despise : Look on with scorn; regard as worthless or distasteful; adj. despicable: contemptible
Despoil : Plunder; sack; ex. despoil the village
Despondent : Without hope and courage; depressed; gloomy; n. despondency: loss of hope with gloom; dejection
Despot : Tyrant; harsh, authoritarian ruler; cf. despotism
Destitute : Extremely poor; lacking means of subsistence; utterly lacking; devoid; ex. destitute of any experience
Desultory : Aimless; haphazard; digressing at random
Detached : Emotionally removed; free from emotional involvement; calm and objective; physically separate; n. detachment; cf. attachment
Detain : Keep waiting; prevent from leaving or going; n. detention
Determinate : Having a fixed order of procedure; precisely defined; invariable; fixed; conclusive; final
Determination : Resolve; firmness of purpose; measurement or calculation; decision
Deterrent : Something that discourages or deters
Detonation : Explosion
Detraction : Slandering; aspersion; detracting; cf. detractor
Detrimental : Harmful; damaging; n. detriment
Deviate : Turn away from (a principle, norm); move away from an accepted standard; swerve; depart; diverge; n. deviation; ex. deviation of the path of light by a prism
Devious : Roundabout; erratic; deviating from the straight course; not straightforward; not completely honest; ex. devious route
Devise : Think up; invent; plan; bequeath; n: bequest
Devoid : Empty; lacking
Devolve : Deputize; pass or be passed to others (power, work, or property); ex. devolve on/upon/to
Devotee : Enthusiastic follower; enthusiast; ex. devotee of bach
Devout : Pious; deeply religious; sincere; earnest; ex. my devout hope
Dexterous : Skillful; skill in using hands or mind; n. dexterity
Diabolical : Diabolic; devilish; fiendish
Diadem : Crown
Dialectical : Relating to the art of debate; mutual or reciprocal; ex. dialectical situation; n. dialectic: art of arriving at the truth by the exchange of logical arguments
Diaphanous : Sheer; transparent
Diatribe : Bitter scolding or denunciation; invective; abuse
Dichotomy : Division into two opposite parts; split; branching into two parts (especially contradictory ones)
Dictum : Authoritative and weighty statement (made by a judge in court); saying; maxim; cf. obiter dictum: incidental, nonbinding remark (something said in passing)
Didactic : (of speech or writing) intended to teach a moral lesson; teaching; instructional; n. didacticism
Die : Metal block used for shaping metal or plastic; device for stamping or impressing; mold; cf. dice
Diffidence : Shyness; lack of self-confidence; timidity; adj. diffident
Diffuse : Wordy; verbose; rambling; spread out (like a gas); v: spread out in all directions; disperse; n. diffusion; cf. suffuse
Dignitary : Person of high rank or position
Digression : Wandering away from the subject; v. digress
Dilapidated : Falling to pieces; in a bad condition; ruined because of neglect; ex. dilapidated old car/castle; n. dilapidation
Dilate : Expand; dilate on/upon: speak or write at length on (a subject)
Dilatory : Delaying; tending to delay
Dilemma : Situation that requires a choice between equally unfavorable options; problem; choice of two unsatisfactory alternatives
Dilettante : Aimless follower of an art or a field of knowledge (not taking it seriously); amateur; dabbler; cf. delight
Diligence : Steadiness of effort; persistent hard work
Dilute : Make (a liquid) less concentrated; reduce in strength; ex. dilute the influence of the president
Diminution : Lessening; reduction in size; v. diminish
Din : Continued loud noise; v: make a din; instill by wearying repetition
Dinghy : Small boat (often ship's boat)
Dingy : (of things and place) dirty and dull; ex. dingy street/curtain
Dint : Means; effort; ex. by dint of hard work
Diorama : Life-size, three-dimensional scene from nature or history; three- dimensional scene with modeled figures against a painted background
Dirge : Funeral song; slow mournful piece of music (sung over a dead person)
Disabuse : Correct a false impression; undeceive; free from a wrong belief
Disaffected : Disloyal; lacking loyality; v. disaffect: cause to lose affection or loyalty
Disapprobation : Disapproval; condemnation
Disarray : State of disorder; a disorderly or untidy state; ex. with her clothes in disarray
Disavowal : Denial; disclaiming; repudiating; disowning; v. disavow; cf. disclaim
Disband : Dissolve; disperse; (of a group) break up and separate; ex. the club has disbanded.
Disbar : Make (a lawyer) leave the bar or the legal profession
Disburse : Pay out (as from a fund); n. disbursement; cf. purse
Discernible : Distinguishable; perceivable; ex. discernible improvement
Discerning : Mentally quick and observant; having insight; perceptive; able to make good judgments; v. discern: perceive
Disclaim : Disown; renounce claim to; deny; cf. disclaimer
Disclose : Reveal; n. disclosure
Discombobulated : Discomposed; confused
Discomfit : Frustrate; put to rout; defeat; disconcert; embarrass; perturb
Discompose : Disturb the composure of; confuse
Disconcert : Confuse; upset; embarrass; perturb
Disconsolate : Hopelessly sad (at the loss of something)
Discord : Conflict; lack of harmony; dissonance (when musical notes are played)
Discordant : Not harmonious; conflicting
Discount : Disregard; regard (a story or news) as unimportant; deduct from a cost
Discourse : Serious speech, writing, or conversation; formal discussion (either written or spoken); conversation; v.
Discredit : Defame; disgrace; destroy confidence in; disbelieve; n. cf. discreditable: causing discredit; shameful
Discrepancy : Lack of consistency or agreement as between facts; difference; ex. discrepancy between two descriptions
Discretion : Prudence; ability to adjust actions to circumstances; freedom of action or judgment; adj. discreet; cf. discretionary
Discriminate : Distinguish; make distinctions on the basis of preference
Discriminating : Able to see differences; discerning; prejudiced; n. discrimination
Discursive : (of a person or writing) digressing; rambling (without any clear plan)
Disdain : Treat with scorn or contempt
Disembark : Debark; go ashore (from a ship); unload cargo from a ship; cf. embark
Disenfranchise : Disfranchise; deprive of a civil right; op. enfranchise
Disengage : Uncouple; separate; disconnect; stop fighting; op. engage
Disfigure : Mar the appearance of; spoil
Disgorge : Surrender something (stolen); eject; vomit; op. gorge
Disgruntle : Make discontented
Dishearten : Discourage
Disheveled : Untidy (of hair or clothing); v. dishevel
Dishonor : Disgrace; n. adj. dishonorable
Disinclination : Unwillingness
Disingenuous : Not naive; not candid; sophisticated; worldly wise; op. ingenuous
Disinter : Dig up; unearth; op. inter
Disinterested : Unprejudiced; free from bias and self-interest; objective
Disjointed : Disconnected; lacking coherence; v. disjoint: disconnect; disjoin
Disjunction : Act or state of separation; disunity; cf. disjunctive: expressing a choice between two ideas; cf. conjunction; cf. conjunctive
Dislodge : Remove (forcibly); force out of a position; ex. dislodge the food caught in his throat; cf. lodge
Dismantle : Take apart; disassemble
Dismember : Cut into small parts; cut (a body) apart limb from limb
Dismiss : Eliminate from consideration; no longer consider; put out of court without further hearing; reject; discharge from employment; direct to leave; adj. dismissive; n. dismissal
Disparage : Belittle
Disparate : Basically different; impossible to compare; unrelated
Disparity : Difference; condition of inequality; op. parity
Dispassionate : Calm; impartial; not influenced by personal feelings
Dispatch : Speediness; prompt execution; message sent with all due speed; v: send to a specified destination; finish promptly; kill
Dispel : Scatter; drive away; cause to vanish
Dispense : Distribute; prepare and give out (medicines); n. dispensation: dispensing; religious system; official exemption from an obligation or a rule
Disperse : Scatter; ex. disperse the cloud/crowd
Dispirited : Lacking in spirit
Disport : Amuse; ex. disport oneself; cf. divert
Disproportion : Lack of proportion (between the parts); adj. disproportionate
Disputatious : Argumentative; fond of argument
Disquietude : Uneasiness; anxiety; v. disquiet: make anxious
Disquisition : Formal systematic inquiry; explanation of the results of a formal inquiry; long formal speech or written report
Dissection : Analysis; cutting apart in order to examine
Dissemble : Disguise; hide the real nature of; pretend
Disseminate : Distribute; spread; scatter (like seeds)
Dissension : Disagreement of opinions causing strife within a group
Dissent : Disagree
Dissertation : Formal essay; treatise
Dissident : Dissenting (with an opinion, a group, or a government); rebellious; n.
Dissimulate : Pretend; conceal by feigning; dissemble
Dissipate : Squander; waste foolishly; scatter
Dissolution : Disintegration; reduction to a liquid form; looseness in morals; sensual indulgence; debauchery; adj. dissolute: lacking in moral restraint; leading an immoral life
Dissonance : Discord
Dissuade : Persuade not to do; discourage; n. dissuasion
Distant : Reserved or aloof; cold in manner; ex. distant greeting; adv. distantly
Distend : Expand; swell out
Distill : Refine (a liquid by evaporating and subsequent condensation); concentrate; separate the most important parts from; ex. distill fresh water from sea water; cf. brew
Distinct : Clearly different; clearly noticed
Distinction : Honor; excellence; difference; contrast; discrimination; ex. graduated with distinction; ex. a writer of real distinction
Distinctive : Clearly different from others of the same kind
Distort : Twist out of shape; give a false account of; misrepresent; n. distortion
Distract : Take (one's attention) off something; upset emotionally; make anxious; adj. distracted
Distrait : Absentminded; distracted
Distraught : Upset; distracted by anxiety; very anxious and troubled almost to the point of madness; ex. distraught with grief/worry
Diurnal : Daily; occurring during the daytime
Diva : Operatic singer; prima donna
Diverge : Vary; go in different directions from the same point; adj. divergent: differing; deviating
Diverse : Differing in some characteristics (from each other); various; n. diversity: | variety; dissimilitude; lack of resemblance
Diversion : Act of turning aside; pastime; v. divert: turn aside from a course; distract; amuse
Divest : Strip (as of clothes); deprive (as of rights); dispossess; n. divestiture(divestment)
Divine : Perceive intuitively (by or as if by magic); foresee the future; foretell; dowse; adj. n. divination
Divulge : Reveal
Docile : Obedient; easily managed; submissive
Docket : Program as for trial; book where such entries are made; list of things to be done; agenda; label fixed to a package listing contents or directions; v: describe in a docket
Doctrinaire : Unable to compromise about points of doctrine; dogmatic; unyielding; marked by inflexible attachment to a doctrine without regard to its practical difficulties
Doctrine : Teachings in general; particular principle (religious, legal, etc.) taught; dogma; tenet; adj. doctrinal
Document : Provide written evidence (for a claim); record with documents; n.
Doddering : Shaky; infirm from old age; v. dodder
Doff : Take off; op. don
Doggerel : Poor verse
Dogmatic : Opinionated; holding stubbornly to one's opinion; arbitrary; doctrinal
Doldrums : Blues; listlessness(lack of spirit or energy); slack(inactive) period; period of stagnation; ocean area near the equator where ships cannot move because there is no wind; ex. in the doldrums
Dolorous : Sorrowful; n. dolor
Dolt : Slow-thinking stupid person; cf. dull
Domicile : Home; v. adj. domiciled: having one's domicile; ex. he is domiciled in britain.
Dominant : Exercising the most influence; high and easily seen; stronger than the other part of a system; not recessive
Dominate : Control; rule; enjoy a commanding position in; overlook from a height; éƒ´å¦¨ä¿ƒç„Šä¿ƒ
Domineer : Rule over tyrannically
Don : Put on; op. doff
Doom : Condemnation to a severe penalty; ruin; fate (esp. a tragic or ruinous one); v.
Dormant : Sleeping; temporarily inactive; lethargic; latent
Dormer : Window projecting upright from roof; cf. sleeping room
Dorsal : Relating to the back of an animal; ex. dorsal fin
Dossier : File of documents on a subject or person; file; cf. bundle of papers labeled on the back
Dotage : Senility; feeblemindedness of old age; ex. in one's dotage
Dote : Be excessively fond of; show signs of mental decline
Dour : Sullen; gloomy; stubborn
Douse : Plunge into water or liquid; dip; immerse; drench; wet throughly; extinguish; throw water over; dowse
Dowdy : Untidy (of a woman or clothes); slovenly; dressed in an unattractive way; shabby; cf. unattractive woman
Downcast : Disheartened; dejected; sad; directed downward
Dowry : Money or property brought by a bride to her husband at marriage
Dowse : Use a divining rod to search for underground water or minerals
Drab : Dull; lacking color; cheerless ; ex. drab coat/life
Draconian : Extremely severe; ex. draconian punishment; cf. draco: athenian politician
Draft : First rough form; conscription; draught; v: make a draft of; conscript
Drama : Prose or verse composition to be performed by actors; play; exciting and unusual situation
Drastic : Strong; violent and severe; ex. drastic changes/measures
Draught : Current of air (through a room or to a fire); act of pulling roads; act of swallowing liquid or amount of liquid swallowed at a time
Draw : Choosing of a lot or card
Dregs : Sediment in a liquid; lees; worthless residue
Dribble : Flow or fall in drops; let saliva flow out slowly from the mouth; move a ball; n.
Drip : Fall or let fall in drops; shed drops; n: action or sound of falling in drops; liquid that falls in drops
Drivel : Nonsense; foolishness; v: talk nonsense
Droll : Queer and amusing
Drone : Talk dully; buzz or murmur like a bee; n.
Droop : Bend or hang downward; become weakened; ex. his shoulders drooped with tiredness; n.
Dross : Waste matter; worthless impurities
Drudge : Do drudgery; n: person who drudges
Drudgery : Hard unpleasant work; menial work
Dubious : Questionable; (of something) causing doubt; (of someone) filled with doubt; n. dubiety
Ductile : Malleable; pliable; (of metals) easily pulled into shape; flexible; (of someone) easily influenced or controlled
Dulcet : Sweet sounding; pleasing to the ear; melodious
Dull : (of colors or surfaces) not bright; cloudy; overcast; boring; (of edge or sound) not sharp; not rapid; sluggish; slow in thinking and understanding; stupid; v.
Dumbfound(dumfound) : Astonish (making dumb); adj. dumbfounded, dumfounded, dumbstruck
Dummy : Imitation of a real object used as a substitute; effigy
Duplicity : Double-dealing; hypocrisy; being dishonest and deceitful; adj. duplicitous
Duration : Length of time something lasts
Duress : Forcible restraint, especially unlawfully; coercion by threat; illegal coercion; ex. a promise made under duress
Dutiful(duteous) : (of people or their behavior) respectful; obedient (filled with a sense of duty)
Dwindle : Shrink; reduce gradually
Dynamic : Energetic; vigorously active
Dynamo : Generator for producing electricity; energetic person
Dys- : Abnormal; impaired
Dysentery : Inflammatory disorder of the lower intestinal tract
Dyslexia : Word blindness; learning disorder marked by impairment of the ability to read
Dyspeptic : Suffering from indigestion; n. dyspepsia: indigestion; difficulty in digesting food
Earmark : Set aside (money or time) for a particular purpose
Earn : Gain for the performance of service or labor; gain (something that one deserves); deserve
Earthly : Of this earth; terrestrial; worldly; not divine; possible; ex. no earthly reason
Earthy : Unrefined; coarse; of earth; ex. earthy remarks; op. ethereal
Ebb : (of the tide) recede; lessen; diminish; n. op. flow: rise of tide
Ebullient : Showing excitement; overflowing with enthusiasm; boiling; n. ebullience; n. ebullition: state of boiling
Eccentric : Irregular; odd; unconventional; whimsical; bizarre; not concentric
Eccentricity : Oddity; idiosyncrasy
Ecclesiastic : Ecclesiastical; pertaining to the church; n: minister; priest; cleric; clergyman
Eclipse : Darken; extinguish; outshine; surpass; cause an eclipse
Ecliptic : Path of the sun and the planets
Ecologist : Person concerned with the interrelationship between living organisms and their environment; person concerned with the detrimental effects of human civilization on the environment; cf. ecology
Economy : Efficiency or conciseness in using something; thrifty management of resources
Ecosystem : Ecological community together with its environment
Ecstasy : Rapture; very strong feeling of joy and happiness; any overpowering emotion; adj. ecstatic: causing or experiencing ecstasy
Eddy : Swirling current of water, air, etc.; v.
Edict : Decree (especially one issued by a sovereign); official command
Edifice : Building (of imposing size)
Edify : Instruct; correct morally
Eerie : Weird; causing fear because strange
Efface : Rub out; remove the surface of
Effective : Effectual; producing a strong response; striking; in operation; in effect; ex. effective speech/photograph
Effectual : Able to produce a desired effect; valid
Effectuate : Effect; produce; achieve; ex. effectuate a reconciliation
Effeminate : Having womanly traits
Effervescence : Inner excitement or exuberance; showing high spirits; emitting bubbles forming inside; bubbling from fermentation or carbonation; adj. effervescent; v. effervesce
Effete : Having lost one's original power; barren; worn out; exhausted
Efficacy : Power to produce desired effect; adj. efficacious: effectual
Effigy : Dummy; likeness of a person made of wood, paper, or stone; ex. burn an effigy of the president
Effluvium : Noxious(harmful) smell
Effrontery : Rudeness without any sense of shame; shameless boldness; presumptousness; nerve; cheek
Effulgent : Shining brightly; brilliant
Effusion : Pouring forth; unrestrained outpouring of feeling; v. effuse: pour out; adj. effusive: pouring forth; gushing
Ego : One's opinion of oneself; self-esteem
Egoism : Excessive interest in one's self; belief that one should be interested in one's self rather than in others; selfishness; adj. egoistic, egoistical
Egotism : Tendency to speak or write of oneself excessively; conceit; self-importance
Egotistical : Egotistic; excessively self-centered(egocentric); self-important; conceited
Egregious : Notorious; conspicuously bad or shocking
Egress : Exit; opening for going out; act of going out; op. ingress
Ejaculation : Exclamation; abrupt ejection (to discharge sperm); v. ejaculate
Elaborate : Work out carefully; add more detail or information; adj.
Elaboration : Addition of details; intricacy
Elastic : Able to spring back into shape; quick to recover (as from disappointment); able to adapt to change; ex. elastic plans; n: elastic material
Elated : Filled with excited joy and pride; overjoyed; in high spirits; joyful and proud; ex. elated crowd; v. elate; n. elation
Elegy : Poem or song expressing lamentation (for the dead); adj. elegiacal, elegiac
Elevation : Elevated position; altitude; height; flat upright side of a building; angle made by pointing a gun; ex. the elevation of her style is much admired; ex. front elevation of the house
Elicit : Draw out fact or information (by discussion or from someone)
Elixir : Cure-all; panacea; something invigorating
Ellipsis : Omission of words from a text; mark used to indicate an omission (when the meaning can be understood without them); pl. ellipses
Elliptical : Elliptic; oval; of an ellipse; containing an ellipsis; ambiguous either purposely or because key words have been left out
Elope : Run away secretly with the intention of getting married
Eloquence : Expressiveness; persuasive speech; adj. eloquent: movingly expressive; expressing ideas well so that the hearers can be influeneced
Elucidate : Explain; make clear; clarify; enlighten; cf. lucid
Elusive : Evasive; not frank; baffling; hard to grasp, catch, or understand; v. elude: escape from; escape the understanding or grasp of; ex. elude the hunter; ex. his name eludes me.
Elysian : Relating to paradise; blissful
Elysium : Place or condition of bliss
Emaciated : Thin and wasted (from hunger or illness)
Emanate : Issue forth; come out
Emasculate : Weaken; castrate
Embargo : Ban on commerce or other activity
Embark : Commence; go on board a boat; begin a journey
Embed(imbed) : Enclose; place in something; fix firmly in a surrounding mass
Embellish : Adorn; ornament; enhance as a story (by adding fictitious details)
Embezzlement : Taking for one's own use in violation of trust; stealing (of money placed in one's care)
Embitter : Make bitter; fill with painful or bitter feelings; make sad and angry; ex. he was embittered by many disappointments.
Emblazon : Ornament richly (a shield or flag); n. emblazonment
Embody : Give a bodily form to; incorporate; include
Emboss : Produce a design in raised relief; decorate with a raised design
Embrace : Hug; clasp with the arms; adopt or espouse; accept readily; encircle; include; ex. embrace the cause/socialism; ex. all-embracing; cf. brace; cf. bracelet
Embroider : Decorate with needlework; ornament (a story) with fancy or fictitious details; embellish
Embroil : Throw into confusion; involve in strife, dispute, or quarrel; entangle; cf. imbroglio
Embryonic : Undeveloped; rudimentary; n. embryo: organism in the early stage of development
Emend : Correct (usually a text); n. emendation: correction of errors; improvement
Emetic : Substance causing vomiting; adj.
Eminent : Rising above others; high; lofty; distinguished; ex. eminent position
Emissary : Agent (sent on a mission to represent another); messenger
Emollient : Soothing or softening remedy (for the skin); adj.
Emolument : Salary; payment for an office; compensation
Empathy : Ability to identify with another's feelings, ideas, etc.; identification with and understanding of another's feelings; v. empathize; cf. sympathy
Empirical : Based on experience
Emulate : Imitate; rival; try to equal or excel (through imitation)
Enact : Make (a bill) into law
Enamored : In love; ex. enamored of his own beauty; v. enamor: inspire with love
Encipher : Encode; convert a message into code; put into cipher
Encircle : Surround
Enclave : Territory enclosed within an alien land
Encomiastic : Praising; eulogistic; n. encomium: very high praise; eulogy
Encompass : Surround; include; ex. his activities encompass publishing and computers.
Encroachment : Gradual intrusion; ex. i resent all these encroachments on my valuable time; v. encroach: take another's possessions or right gradually or stealthily; intrude; ex. encroach on/upon
Encumber : Burden; n. encumbrance
Endear : Make beloved; ex. endear her to everyone; adj. dear: loved; cherished; high-priced
Endearment : Fond word or act; expression of affection
Endemic : Prevailing among a specific group of people or in a specific area or country; peculiar to a particular region or people; cf. pandemic
Endorse : Approve; support; write one's signature on the back of; n. endorsement; cf. dorsal
Endue : Provide with some quality; endow
Enduring : Lasting; surviving; v. endure: bear (pain or suffering) for a long time; remain alive (in spite of difficulties); last; survive
Energize : Invigorate; give energy to; make forceful and active
Enervate : Weaken; take away energy from
Enfranchise : Admit to the rights of citizenship (especially the right to vote); cf. franchise
Engage : Attract; employ; hire; pledge oneself; confront; fight; enter into confliction; interlock; lock together; participate; n. engagement: agreement to marry; arrangement to meet someone or to do something; battle
Engaged : Employed; busy; betrothed; involved in conflict
Engaging : Charming; attractive
Engender : Cause; produce; give rise to
Engross : Occupy fully; absorb
Engulf : Surround and swallow up
Enhance : Increase; make greater (as in value, reputation, or usefulness); improve
Enigma : Puzzle; mystery; adj. enigmatic: obscure; puzzling
Enjoin : Command; order; forbid
Enlist : (cause to) join the armed forces; obtain (help, sympathy, or support)
Enmity : Ill will; hatred; hostility
Ennui : Boredom; listlessness and dissatisfaction resulting from lack of interest; cf. annoy
Enormity : Hugeness (in a bad sense); excessive wickedness; ex. enormity of the crime; adj. enormous
Enrapture : Please intensely; fill with rapture and delight
Ensconce : Settle comfortably; place comfortably (in a secure place)
Ensue : Follow (as a result)
Entail : Make necessary; require; necessitate; involve; limit the inheritance of (property) to a specified succession of heirs; ex. entail a on/upon b
Enterprise : Willingness to take new ventures; initiative; business organization; plan (that is difficult or daring); ex. their latest enterprise to sail round the world in a small boat
Enterprising : Full of initiative; showing enterprise
Enthrall : Capture; enslave; captivate; hold the complete attention of (as if magic); hold spellbound
Entice : Lure; persuade to do (something wrong); attract; tempt
Entity : Real being
Entomology : Study of insects
Entourage : Group of attendants; retinue; cf. surround
Entrance : Put under a spell(condition caused by magical power); carry away(fill with strong feeling) with emotion; put into a trance; fill with delight
Entreat : Plead; ask earnestly
Entree(entr\'ee) : Entrance; a way in; right to enter; main dish of a meal; ex. entree into the exclusive circle
Entrepreneur : Businessperson (who assumes the risk of a business venture); contractor; adj. entrepreneurial
Enumerate : List; mention one by one
Enunciate : Announce; proclaim; utter or speak, especially distinctly; pronounce clearly; articulate; ex. this theory was first enunciated by him.
Environ : Enclose; surround; n. environs: surrounding area (as of a city)
Eon(aeon) : Long period of time; an age; longest division of geologic time containing two or more eras
Epaulet(epaulette) : Ornament worn on the shoulder (of a uniform, etc.)
Ephemeral : Short-lived; fleeting
Epicure : Connoisseur of food and drink; gourmet; adj. epicurean; cf. epicurus
Epicurean : Believing that pleasure is good and suffering is bad and should be avoided; n.
Epigram : Witty thought or saying, usually short
Epilogue : Short speech at conclusion of dramatic work
Episodic : (of a story or play) loosely connected; made up of separate and loosely connected parts; n. episode: incident in the course of an experience
Epistemologist : Philosopher who studies the nature of knowledge; n. epistemology
Epitaph : Inscription in memory of a dead person (as on a tombstone)
Epithet : Word or phrase characteristically used to describe a person or thing; descriptive phrase to characterize a person (often contemptous)
Epitome : Perfect example or embodiment; brief summary; ex. epitome of good manners; v. epitomize: make an epitome of; be an epitome of; embody
Epoch : Period of time
Equable : Tranquil; of even calm temper; (of temperature) steady; uniform
Equanimity : Calmness of temperament; composure
Equestrian : Rider on horseback; adj.
Equilibrium : Balance of opposing forces; balance of the mind; equanimity
Equine : Resembling a horse; ex. equine face
Equinox : Period of equal days and nights; the beginning of spring and autumn; ex. vernal/autumnal equinox; adj. equinoctial
Equipoise : Balance; balancing force; equilibrium
Equitable : Fair; impartial; op. inequitable
Equity : Fairness; justice; op. inequity
Equivocal : (of words or statements) ambiguous; intentionally misleading; (of behavior) questionable; op. unequivocal
Equivocate : Use equivocal language to deceive people; lie; mislead; attempt to conceal the truth; n. equivocation
Erode : Eat away; wear away gradually by abrasion; ex. the sea erodes the rocks.
Erotic : Pertaining to passionate love or sexual love
Errant : Wandering (esp. in search of adventure); straying from proper moral standards; ex. knight-errant
Erratic : Odd; irregular in movement or behavior; unpredictable
Erroneous : Mistaken; wrong; incorrect
Erudite : (of a person or book) learned; full of learning; scholarly; n. erudition
Escapade : Prank; flighty conduct; reckless adventure that disobeys rules
Eschew : Avoid habitually; ex. eschew alcoholic drinks
Esoteric : Hard to understand; known only to the chosen few, esp. initiates; n. esoterica
Espionage : Spying
Espouse : Adopt; support (an idea or aim); marry; n. espousal
Esteem : Respect; value; judge; n.
Estimable : (of a person) worthy of esteem; admirable; deserving esteem; possible to estimate
Estranged : Separated; alienated; v. estrange: alienate (people in a family); n. estrangement
Ethereal : Like a spirit or fairy; unearthly light; heavenly; unusually refined; ex. she has an ethereal beauty; cf. ether: upper air
Ethnic : Relating to races
Ethnology : Study of humankind; study of the different races of human beings; cf. anthropology
Ethos : Underlying character of a culture, group, etc.; character or ideas peculiar to a specific person, group, or culture; ex. the company ethos
Etymology : Study of word parts; study of the origins of words
Eugenic : Pertaining to the improvement of race; n. eugenics: study of hereditary improvement of the human race
Eulogistic : Praising; full of eulogy
Eulogy : Expression of praise, often on the occasion of someone's death; v. eulogize
Euphemism : Mild expression in place of an unpleasant one; adj. euphemistic
Euphony : Sweet sound; adj. euphonious
Euphoria : Feeling of exaggerated or unfounded(ungrounded; baseless) well-being; feeling of great happiness or well-being (when unreasonable); adj. euphoriaric
Euthanasia : Mercy killing
Evanescent : Fleeting; vanishing; soon disappearing; v. evanesce
Evasive : Not frank; trying to hide the truth; eluding; evading; v. evade: avoid (a duty or responsibility) or escape from by deceit
Evenhanded : Impartial; fair
Eventual : Happening at last as a result; ex. eventual victory
Evince : Show clearly
Evocative : Tending to call up (emotions, memories)
Evoke : Call forth (memory or feeling); ex. that old film evoked memories of my childhood; n. evocation
Ewe : Female sheep
Exacerbate : Worsen; aggravate; embitter
Exact : Demand and obtain by force; ex. exact a promise from him; n. exaction
Exacting : Extremely demanding; ex. exacting standard of safety
Exalt : Raise in rank or dignity; praise highly; inspire; ex. exalt the imagination; adj. exalted; n. exaltation
Exasperate : Vex; annoy or make angry (by testing the patience)
Except : Exclude; n. exception: objection; exclusion; adj. exceptional: unusual; of unusually high quality
Exceptionable : Objectionable; likely to cause dislike; offensive; cf. unexceptionable: entirely acceptable
Excerpt : Selected passage (written or musical) taken from a longer work; v.
Exchequer : Treasury; ex. chancellor of the exchequer
Excise : Cut away; cut out; n: government tax on good produced and used inside a country; n. excision
Exclaim : Cry out suddenly; n. exclamation; adj. exclamatory
Excoriate : Scold with biting harshness; censure strongly; strip the skin off
Exculpate : Clear from blame or guilt
Execrable : Very bad; detestable
Execrate : Curse; express abhorrence for; detest
Execute : Put into effect; carry out; kill as a lawful punishment; n. execution
Executioner : Person administering capital punishment
Executive : Person having administrative authority; one branch of government executing laws; adj: relating to executing
Executor : Person designated to execute the terms of a will;
Exegesis : Explanation, especially of biblical(of the bible) passages
Exemplary : Serving as a model; outstanding; ex. exemplary punishment/behavior; n. exemplar: typical example; model
Exemplify : Show by example; furnish an example; serve as an example of; ex. his pictures exemplify that sort of painting.
Exempt : Not subject to a duty or obligation; free from a duty; v.
Exertion : Effort; expenditure of much physical work; v. exert oneself: make a great effort
Exhale : Breathe out; op. inhale
Exhilarating : Invigorating and refreshing; cheering; v. exhilarate: make cheerful and excited; ex. exhilarated by the ride in the sports car
Exhort : Urge (by strong argument or advice); ex. the general exhorted his men to fight bravely; n. exhortation
Exhume : Dig out of the ground; remove from a grave
Exigency : Urgent situation; adj. exigent
Exiguous : Small in amount; minute
Existential : Pertaining to existence; pertaining to the philosophy of existentialism
Exodus : Departure (of a large number of people)
Exonerate : Acquit; exculpate; free from blame or guilt
Exorbitant : (of costs or demands) excessive; exceeding reasonable bounds
Exorcise : Drive out evil spirits
Exotic : Not native; from another part of the world; strange; intriguingly unusual; ex. exotic flower/dress
Expansive : (of a person) outgoing and sociable; broad and extensive; able to increase in size
Expatiate : Talk at length; speak or write in detail
Expatriate : Exile; someone who has withdrawn from his native land; v: exile; banish; leave one's country
Expedient : Suitable (for a particular purpose although not necessarily morally correct); practical; politic(prudent); n: something expedient
Expedite : Hasten; make go faster
Expeditious : Done with speed; quick; n. expedition
Expenditure : Payment or expense; expending; something expended; output; ex. receipt for the expenditure; ex. expenditure of all the energy
Expertise : Specialized knowledge (in a particular field); expert skill
Expiate : Make amends for (a sin)
Expletive : Meaningless word; interjection; profane oath; swear-word
Explicate : Explain in detail; interpret; clarify; cf. explicable
Explicit : Totally clear; definite; outspoken
Exploit : Make use of, sometimes unjustly; n. exploitation
Expos\'e : Public revelation of something discreditable
Expository : Explanatory; serving to explain; n. exposition: explaining; exhibition
Expostulation : Protest; remonstrance; reasoning with someone to correct or dissuade; v. expostulate
Exposure : Risk, particularly of being exposed to disease or to the elements; unmasking; act of laying something open; ex. exposure of governmental corruption
Expound : Explain
Expropriate : Take possession of (often for public use and without payment)
Expunge : Cancel; remove a word or name (from a book or list); erase
Expurgate : Clean; remove offensive parts of a book
Exquisite : Delicate; very finely made; extremely beautiful; ex. exquisite piece of jewelry
Extant : (of something written or painted) still in existence
Extemporaneous : Not planned; impromptu; extempore
Extenuate : Weaken; mitigate; lessen the seriousness of (bad behavior)
Extirpate : Root up; uproot; destroy completely
Extol : Praise very highly; glorify
Extort : Wring from; get money by threats, etc.; obtain by force or threats; cf. extortionate: exorbitant
Extradition : Surrender of prisoner by one state to another; ex. extradition treaty; v. extradite
Extraneous : Not essential; irrelevant; superfluous; external; coming from the outside; ex. extraneous details/noise/to the subject
Extrapolation : Projection; conjecture; v. extrapolate: infer (unknown information) from known information
Extricate : Free from an entanglement or difficulty; disentangle
Extrinsic : External; not essential or inherent; extraneous; op. intrinsic
Extrovert : Person interested mostly in external objects and actions
Extrude : Force or push out; thrust out; shape (plastic or metal) by forcing through a die
Exuberance : Overflowing abundance; joyful enthusiasm; flamboyance; lavishness; adj. exuberant: high-spirited and lively; growing abundantly and strongly
Exude : Flow out slowly; discharge (gradually); give forth; n. exudation
Exult : Rejoice
Fabricate : Build; lie; make up (a story) in order to deceive; ex. fabricate the whole story; cf. fabric: underlying structure; ex. fabric of society
Facade(fa\c{c}ade) : Front or face (of building); superficial or false appearance
Facet : Small plane surface (of a gem(precious stone)); a side
Facetious : Joking (often inappropriately); unserious; humorous
Facile : Easily accomplished; ready or fluent; superficial; not deep; ex. facile solution to a complex problem; ex. facile speaker; n. facility: ability to do something easily and well; ease in doing resulting from skill or aptitude; something that facil
Facilitate : Help bring about; make less difficult
Facsimile : Copy
Faction : Party; clique (within a large group); dissension
Factious : Inclined to form factions; causing dissension
Factitious : Artificial; produced artificially; sham; false; ex. factitious tears
Factotum : Handyman; person who does all kinds of work; cf. do everything
Faculty : Mental or bodily powers; teaching staff
Fake : Not genuine; n: one that is not genuine; impostor; sham; v: counterfeit; ex. fake the results of the experiment/the signature
Fallacious : False; based on a fallacy; misleading; n. fallacy: false idea or notion; false reasoning; ex. popular fallacy; ex. fallacy of the argument
Fallible : Liable to err
Fallow : (of land) plowed but not sowed (to improve the quality); uncultivated
Falsify : Make (something written) false by changing
Falter : Hesitate; weaken in purpose or action; walk or move unsteadily through weakness; n.
Fanaticism : Excessive zeal; extreme devotion to a belief or cause; n. fanatic; adj. fanatic
Fancied : Imagined; unreal
Fancier : Breeder or dealer of animals; one who has a special interest, as for raising specific plant or animal
Fanciful : Whimsical; visionary; imaginary; produced by imagination; ex. fanciful scheme
Fancy : Imagination (of a whimsical or fantastic nature); capricious liking; v: imagine; be fond of; adj. decorative; elaborate
Fanfare : Call by bugles or trumpets; showy display; spectacular public display
Farce : Broad comedy; mockery; humorous play full of silly things happening; adj. farcical
Far-fetched : Too improbable to be believed; implausible; ex. far-fetched story
Fashion : Give shape to; make; ex. fashion the pot out of clay
Fastidious : Difficult to please; squeamish; fussy; finicky
Fatalism : Belief that events are determined by forces or fates beyond one's control; adj. fatalistic; cf. fatal: causing death
Fathom : Comprehend; investigate; determine the depth of; n. unit of measurement for the depth of water
Fathomless : Too deep to be measured or understood; unfathomable
Fatuous : Smugly and unconsciously foolish; inane; silly; n. fatuity, fatuousness
Fauna : Animals of a period or region; cf. flora
Favoritism : Display of partiality toward a favored person
Fawning : Courting favor by cringing and flattering; v. fawn: exhibit affection as a dog; seek favor or attention by obsequiousness
Faze : Disconcert; dismay; embarrass
Feasible : Practical; able to be carried out; practicable
Feature : Distinctive part of the faces (as the eyes or mouth); features: overall appearance of the face; prominent or distinctive quality; prominent article; film; v: make prominent
Febrile : Feverish
Fecundity : Fertility; fruitfulness; adj. fecund: very productive of crops or young
Feebleminded : Deficient in intelligence; very stupid
Feign : Pretend
Feint : Trick; shift; sham blow; feigned attack to draw away defensive action; v.
Felicitous : (of a word or remark) apt; suitably expressed; well chosen
Felicity : Happiness; appropriateness (of a remark, choice, etc.); quality of being felicitous
Feline : Of a member of the cat family; n.
Fell : Cut or knock down (a tree or a person); bring down (with a missile)
Felon : Person convicted of a grave crime; cf. felony: serious crime
Feral : (of an animal) not domestic; wild
Ferment : Agitation; commotion(noisy and excited activity); unrest (of a political kind); v. produce by fermentation; undergo fermentation; cause (a state of trouble)
Fermentation : Chemical reaction that splits complex organic compounds; unrest; agitation
Ferocious : Fierce; violent; n. ferocity
Ferret : Drive or hunt out of hiding; hunt with ferrets; drive out (as from a hiding place); expel; uncover or discover by searching; ex. ferret out the secret; n. small fierce animal which catches rats and rabbits by going into their holes
Fertile : Producing many young, fruits, or seeds; (of land) producing good crops; v. fertilize
Fervent : Ardent; zealous; hot
Fervid : Ardent; zealous; hot
Fervor : Glowing ardor; intensity of feeling; quality of being fervent or fervid; zeal; intense heat
Fester : Rankle; produce irritation or resentment; (of a cut or wound) generate pus or rot; ex. his insult festered in my mind for days.
Festive : Joyous; celebratory; relating to a feast or festival
Fete(f\^ete) : Honor at a festival; celebrate or honor with a feast; n. (outdoor) festival or feast; cf. feast
Fetid(foetid) : Malodorous; foul
Fetish(fetich) : Object believed to have spiritual powers; object of excessive attention or reverence; cf. fetishism
Fetter : Shackle; restrict the freedom of; n. chain or shackle for the foot of a prisoner; cf. foot
Feud : Bitter prolonged quarrel (usually between two peoples or families); v. cf. romeo and juliet; cf. feudal, feudalism
Fiasco : Total failure; cf. bottle
Fiat : Command; arbitrary order; ex. presidential fiat; cf. let it be done
Fickle : Changeable (in affections or friendship); faithless
Fictitious : Imaginary; non-existent; purposely invented to deceive; untrue; ex. fictitious name/boyfriend; cf. fictional
Fidelity : Loyalty; accuracy
Fiend : Evil spirit; devil
Figurative : Not literal but metaphorical; using a figure(impression) of speech
Figure : Written symbols; number; amount represented in numbers; outline or silhouette of a thing or human body; person (well-known); impression; diagram; pattern; group in a dance; ex. figure of speech; v. calculate with numbers; adorn with figures; app
Figurine : Small ornamental statuette(very small statue)
Filch : Steal (things of small value)
Filial : Pertaining to or befitting a son or daughter; ex. filial respect
Filibuster : Block legislation or prevent action in a lawmaking body by making very slow long speeches; n; freebooter
Filigree : Delicate ornamental lacelike metalwork
Filing : Particle removed by a file
Filth : Dirty matter; adj. filthy
Finale : Conclusion; concluding part
Finery : Beautiful clothes for a special occasion
Finesse : Delicate skill; v: handle with finesse
Finicky : Too particular; fussy; difficult to please; too concerned with unimportant details or quality; ex. finicky about her food
Finish : Surface texture; completeness of execution
Finished : Properly made and complete; ex. finished product/performance
Finite : Limited
Firebrand : Piece of burning wood; hothead; troublemaker; person who stirs up trouble
Fissure : Crevice; crack
Fit : Sudden outburst of an illness or feeling; convulsion caused by epilepsy
Fitful : Spasmodic; intermittent; irregular
Flaccid : Flabby; lacking firmness; weak; ex. flaccid muscles
Flag : Droop; grow feeble; decline in vigor or strength; adj. flagging; cf. unflagging
Flagrant : Conspicuously wicked, bad, or offensive; blatant; outrageous
Flail : Beat with or as if with a flail; move wildly; thresh grain by hand; strike or slap; toss about; n: threshing tool consisting of a stick swinging from the end of a long handle
Flair : Talent
Flamboyant : Ornate; highly elaborate; richly colored; ostentatious; showy; cf. flame
Flashy : Showy; gaudy; giving a momentary brilliance
Flaunt : Display ostentatiously; ex. ``honey, if you've got it, flaunt it !''
Flay : Strip off skin; plunder; remove the skin from; criticize harshly
Fleck : Spot; mark with flecks; n: small mark or spot
Fledgling(fledgeling) : Inexperienced; n: young bird that has acquired wing feathers and is learning to fly; inexperienced person
Fleece : Wool coat of a sheep; v: shear the fleece from; rob by a trick; swindle; plunder
Fleet : Fast; rapid; n. adj. fleeting: passing quickly; ephemeral
Flick : Light stroke as with a whip; v: move with a light quick blow; strike with a light quick blow (as from a whip); ex. flick the switch
Flicker : Burn unsteadily or fitfully; move waveringly; n: flickering movement or light; brief sensation; ex. flicker of excitement
Flighty : (esp. of a woman's behavior) capricious; often changing, esp. from one lover to another; impulsive
Flinch : Hesitate; shrink back (in fear of something unpleasant); ex. she did not flinch in the face of danger.
Flip : Send (something) spinning, often into the air, by striking with a light quick blow; turn over; ex. flip over
Flippant : Lacking proper seriousness; ex. flippant remarks about death; n. flippancy
Flirt : Behave in a way that attracts (sexual) attention; deal triflingly with; n: one (or woman) given to flirting; adj. flirtatious
Flit : Fly; fly or move lightly or quickly; dart lightly; pass swiftly by; ex. a bee flitting from flower to flower
Floe : Flat mass of floating ice
Flora : Plants of a region or era
Florescence : Condition or period of flowering
Florid : Ruddy; (of a complexion) reddish; flowery; very ornate; cf. rose
Flotsam : Drifting wreckage
Flounder : Struggle and thrash about; proceed clumsily or falter (as in water, mud, snow, etc.); proceed in confusion
Flourish : Grow well; prosper; make sweeping gestures; wave; brandish; ex. the trees flourished in the sun. n: showy movement or gesture; embellishment or ornamentation (esp. in handwriting)
Flowery : Full of flowers; full of ornate expressions
Fluctuate : Waver; shift; rise and fall as if in waves; change or vary irregularly
Fluency : Smoothness of speech; adj. fluent
Fluke : Unlikely occurrence; stroke of fortune; accidental stroke of good luck; adj. fluky
Flush : Redden; blush; flow suddenly and abundantly; wash out by a rapid brief flow of water; n: reddish tinge; blush; brief rush; rush of strong feeling; ex. flush of pride; adj: having surfaces in the same plane; even; blushing
Fluster : Confuse; make nervous and confused; n.
Fluted : Having vertical parallel grooves (as in a pillar); v. flute: make long parallel inward curves in; n. flute: long rounded groove incised on the shaft of a column
Flutter : (of a bird with large wings) wave (the wings) lightly, rapidly, and irregularly; vibrate rapidly or erratically; fly by waving quickly; flitter; n.
Flux : Flowing; series of changes; fluctuation; ex. in a state of flux
Fodder : Coarse food for cattle, horses, etc.; feed for livestock; cf. food
Foible : Small weakness of character; slight fault; cf. feeble
Foil : Defeat; frustrate; prevent from being successful; thwart; cf. fail
Foist : Insert improperly; impose upon another by coercion; palm off; pass off as genuine or worthy; cf. fist
Foliage : Masses of leaves; cf. defoliate
Foment : Stir up; incite; instigate; promote the growth of (something evil or unpleasant)
Foolhardy : Rash; reckless; foolishly daring
Foppish : Vain about dress and appearance; n. fop: man who takes too much interest in his clothes and appearance
Foray : Raid; sudden raid or military advance; v.
Forbearance : Patience; forgiveness; v. forbear: refrain from (in a generous and forgiving way); be patient; ex. forbear to send him to prison
Ford : Place where a river can be crossed on foot; v.
Forebears(forbears) : Ancestors
Foreboding : Premonition of evil; feeling of coming evil; v. forebode: be a warning of (something unpleasant)
Forerunner : Predecessor; one that comes before and indicates the approach of another
Foreshadow : Give an indication beforehand; be a sign of (what is coming); portend; prefigure
Foresight : Ability to foresee future happenings; prudence in providing for the future
Forestall : Prevent by taking action in advance
Forfeit : Something surrendered as punishment for a crime or breach of contract; v: lose as a forfeit; n. forfeiture
Forge : Counterfeit; reproduce fraudulently; form by heating in a forge and hammering into shape; move with a sudden increase of speed or power; ex. forged ahead in the last two years; n: furnace where metals are heated
Forgo(forego) : Give up; do without
Forlorn : Sad and lonely; wretched; desolate
Formality : Ceremonious quality; ceremonious adherence to rules; something done just for form's sake; ex. mere formality
Formidable : Menacing; arousing fear; threatening; difficult to defeat; ex. formidable foe/question
Forsake : Desert; abandon; renounce
Forswear : Renounce under oath; abandon; make a solemn promise to give up; cf. abjure
Forte : Strong point or special talent in a person's character
Forthcoming : Happening in the near future; ready; willing to help; ex. no answer was forthcoming.
Forthright : Straightforward; direct; frank
Fortitude : Bravery; courage; strength of mind
Fortuitous : Accidental; by chance; n. fortuity
Forum : Public square of an ancient roman city; public place for open discussion; court of law
Forward : Presumptuous or bold
Foster : Rear; bring up (for a certain period only); encourage; promote the development of (feelings or ideas); ex. help foster friendly relations; adj: giving parental care although not related by blood; ex. foster parents
Foul : Very bad or disagreeable; very dirty; ex. foul smell/flavor/temper/language/air/deed/weather/means; n. act against the rules; v. make or become foul; commit a foul
Founder : Person who establishes (an organization or business)
Fracas : Brawl(noisy quarrel or fight) in which a number of people take part; melee
Fractious : Unruly; peevish; cranky; bad-tempered; ex. fractious horse
Frail : Weak; n. frailty
Franchise : Right or privilege granted by authority; right to vote; license to sell a product in a particular territory
Frantic : Wild; distraught as from fear or worry; ex. frantic with fear
Fraudulent : Cheating; deceitful; ex. fraudulent means; n. fraud: deception; swindle
Fraught : Filled (with something unpleasant); full; ex. fraught with danger and difficulties; cf. freight
Fray : Brawl; fight; v: wear away or unravel by rubbing; have loose threads developing; cause to become worn out (a person's temper or nerves); cf. rub
Freebooter : Pirate or plunderer who makes war in order to grow rich
Frenetic(phrenetic) : Frenzied; frantic
Frenzied : Madly excited; n. frenzy: violent wild excitement
Fresco : Painting on wet plaster (usually fresh)
Fret : Be annoyed or vexed; ex. fret over your poor grades; n: irritation of mind; adj. fretful
Friction : Clash or conflict in opinion; rubbing against
Frieze : Ornamental horizontal band on a wall
Frigid : Intensely cold; cold in manner; ex. frigid zone
Fringe : Decorative edge of hanging threads; edge
Frisk : Move about playfully; froric; adj. frisky: playful
Fritter : Waste (time or money on unimportant things)
Frivolous : Lacking in seriousness; flippant; self-indulgently carefree; unworthy of serious attention; relatively unimportant; trivial
Frock : Long loose garment (worn by monks)
Frolic : Play and jump about happily; frisk; ex. frolicking young lambs
Frolicsome : Prankish; gay; playful; merry; frisky
Frond : Fern leaf; palm or banana leaf
Fructify : Bear fruit; produce fruit
Frugality : Thrift; economy; adj. frugal: practicing economy; costing little; inexpensive
Fruitful : Producing results; profitable; prolific; producing in abundance
Fruition : Bearing of fruit; fulfillment; realization; ex. come to/be brought to fruition
Frustrate : Thwart; defeat; prevent from accomplishing a purpose
Fuddle : Make stupid or confused as with alcholic drink; n. in a fuddle: confused
Fugitive : Fleeting or transitory; lasting only a short time; roving(wandering); running away or fleeing as from the law; n: one who flees; ex. fugitives at large
Fulcrum : Support on which a lever rests or pivots
Fulminate : Thunder; explode; issue a severe denunciation
Fulsome : Disgustingly excessive; offensively flattering; ex. fulsome praise/expressions of admire
Fumble : Move the fingers and hands awkwardly (in search of something); mishandle or drop a ball that is in play; bungle; botch; spoil by mishandling; n.
Functional : Made for practical use only (without decoration); functioning; ex. functional modern furniture; cf. functionalism
Functionary : Official (who performs a particular function)
Fundamental : Basic; primary; essential
Funereal : Sad; solemn; suitable for a funeral
Furor : Frenzy; great anger and excitement; cf. fury
Furrow : Long shallow trench made by a plow; deep wrinkle in the skin; v.
Furtive : Stealthy; quiet and secret (trying to escape notice); sneaky; ex. furtive glance
Fusillade : Simultaneous firing or outburst (of missiles, questions, etc.)
Fusion : Union; coalition; v. fuse
Fuss: : Trouble or worry over trifles; make nervous; pay too much attention to; n: needless concern or worry (about a trivial thing); anxious nervous condition; display of attention; ex. make a fuss over the baby
Fussy : Fastidious; finicky; easily upset
Gadfly : Animal-biting fly; irritating person
Gaffe : Social blunder
Gainsay : Deny
Gait : Manner of walking or running; speed
Galaxy : Large isolated system of stars, such as the milky way; collection of brilliant personalities
Gale : Windstorm; gust of wind; emotional outburst (laughters, tears); ex. gale of laughter
Gall : Annoy; exasperate; chafe; n: skin sore caused by rubbing (as on the skin of a horse); exasperation
Galleon : Large three-masted sailing ship
Galley : Low ship with sails (rowed along by slaves)
Gallows : Framework from which a noose is suspended (used for execution by hanging)
Galvanic : Of the production of electricity by the action of an acid on a metal; having the effect of an electric shock; ex. galvanic cell; galvanic effect; cf. luigi galvani
Galvanize : Stimulate or shock by an electric current; stimulate by shock; shock into action; stir up; coat with rust-resistant zinc by using electricity
Gambit : Opening in chess in which a piece is sacrificed; action made to produce a future advantage
Gambol : Romp; skip about; leap about playfully; frolic; n.
Gamely : In a spirited manner; with courage; ex. fight gamely against a superior boxer; adj. game
Gamut : Entire range
Gangrene : Decay of body tissue caused by insufficient blood supply (usually following injury); adj. gangrenous
Gape : Open widely; open the mouth wide; stare wonderingly with the mouth open; cf. agape
Garbled : Mixed up; jumbled; distorted; v. garble: mix up or distort (a message) to such an extent as to make misleading or unintelligible
Gargantuan : Huge; enormous; gigantic; cf. the hero of gargantua and pantagruel
Gargoyle : Waterspout carved in grotesque figures on a building
Garish : Overbright in color; unpleasantly bright; gaudy
Garner : Gather; store up; amass
Garnish : Decorate; add a garnish to; decorate (food or drink) with small items such as lemon slices; n.
Gastronomy : Art and science of preparing and serving good food; cf. gastronome
Gauche : Clumsy (in social behavior); coarse and uncouth
Gaudy : Flashy; showy
Gaunt : Lean and angular; thin and bony; emaciated; barren
Gavel : Hammerlike tool; mallet(wooden hammer) used by a presiding officer or an auctioneer; v.
Gawk : Stare foolishly; look in open-mouthed awe
Gazette : Official periodical publication; newspaper
Genealogy : Record of descent; lineage; ancestry; study of ancestry
Generality : Vague statement; general statement which is not detailed; quality of being general; greater part; most; ex. generality of people
Generate : Cause; produce; create
Generic : Characteristic of an entire class or species; of a genus
Genesis : Beginning; origin
Geniality : Cheerfulness; kindliness; sympathy; adj. genial: cheerful and good-tempered
Genre : Particular variety of art or literature
Genteel : Well-bred; elegant; striving to convey an appearance of refinement; ex. genteel poverty
Gentility : Those of gentle birth; high social class; refinement; quality of being genteel
Gentle : Kindly; soft; mild; of good family
Gentry : People of standing(rank or position); people of good family or high social position; class of people just below nobility
Genuflect : Bend the knee as in worship
Genus : Division of animals or plants, below a family and above a species
Geriatrics : Medical treatment and care of old age
Germ : Earliest form of an organism; seed or bud; something that may develop into something larger or more important; microbe
Germane : Pertinent; bearing upon(having connection with) the case at hand; appropriate
Germinal : Pertaining to a germ; creative; ex. germinal idea
Germinate : Cause to sprout; sprout
Gerontocracy : Government ruled by old people
Gerontology : Study of the sociological phenomena associated with old age
Gestate : Evolve as in prenatal growth; n. gestation: period of development from conception until birth
Gesticulation : Motion; gesture; v. gesticulate: make gestures (while speaking)
Ghastly : Horrible; terrifying; resembling ghosts; cf. aghast
Gibberish : Nonsense; nonsensical or unintelligible talk or writing; babbling
Gibe : Mock; make jeering remarks; n: jeering remarks
Giddy : Light-hearted; not serious; frivolous; dizzy; causing dizziness; ex. giddy youth; ex. giddy climb/height
Gild : Cover with a thin layer of gold
Gingerly : Very carefully; adj.
Girth : Distance around something; circumference
Gist : Essence; main point; substance
Glacial : Like a glacier; of an ice age; extremely cold; ex. glacial epoch; cf. iceberg
Glamor : Compelling charm; adj. glamorous
Glare : Shine intensely and blindingly; stare fixedly and angrily; n.
Glaring : (of something bad) highly conspicuous; harshly bright; shining intensely and blindingly
Glaze : Cover with a thin and shiny surface; apply a glaze to; n: thin, smooth, shiny coating (as for pottery); ex. unglazed pottery
Gleam : Brief flash of light; glow; v.
Glean : Gather leavings; gather grain left behind by reapers; gather bit by bit (facts or information) often with difficulty
Glib : Fluent (with insincerity or superficiality); facile; slick
Glimmer : Shine erratically; twinkle; n: dim or unsteady light; faint indication; ex. glimmer of hope
Glitter : Shine brightly with flashing points of light; ex. glittering diamond ring; n: sparkling light; attractiveness; glamor; ex. glitter of the sun on the waves
Gloat : Express evil satisfaction; look at or think about with evil satisfaction; view malevolently; ex. the thief gloated over the stolen jewels.
Gloss : Brief explanation note or translation of a difficult expression; v.
Gloss_over : Explain away with the intention of deceiving or hiding faults
Glossary : Brief explanation of words used in the text
Glossy : Smooth and shining; n. gloss: shiny brightness on a surface; superficially attractive appearance; ex. gloss of good manners
Glow : Shine brightly without a flame (as of eyes or metals); show redness and heat
Glower : Scowl; glare; look or stare angrily
Glut : Overstock; fill beyond capacity (with food); fill to excess; n: oversupply
Glutinous : Sticky; viscous; gluey
Glutton : Someone who eats too much; adj. gluttonous: given to gluttony; greedy; cf. gluttony: habit of eating too much
Gnarl : Protruding knot on a tree; v.
Gnarled : Twisted
Gnome : Dwarf; underground spirit who guards treasure hoards
Goad : Urge on; drive with a goad; cause (someone) to do something by continued annoyance; ex. they goaded him into doing it by saying he was a coward; n: sharp-pointed stick for driving cattle; stimulus; cf. annoy continually
Gobble : Eat very quickly
Gorge : Stuff oneself (with food); glut; cf. gorgeous: dazzlingly beautiful
Gory : Bloody; n. gore: blood (from a wound)
Gossamer : Sheer; very light; like cobwebs; n: soft and sheer fabric; cobweb
Gouge : Overcharge (with high price); extort from; ex. gouge the public; cf. usury
Gourmand : Epicure; person who takes excessive pleasure in food and drink
Gourmet : Connoisseur of food and drink; epicure
Gracious : Kind in a generous way (to someone less important)
Gradation : Series of gradual stages; degree in such a progression
Graduate : Arrange into categories or grades; divide into marked intervals (for use in measurement); ex. graduated ruler
Graduated : Arranged by degrees (of height, difficulty, etc.)
Granary : Storehouse for grain
Grandeur : Impressiveness; stateliness; majesty
Grandiloquent : (of a person or speech) using high sounding or important-sounding language; pompous; bombastic
Grandiose : Affectedly grand; pretentious; high-flown; ridiculously exaggerated; impressive; great in size or scope; grand; ex. grandiose ideas
Granulate : Form into grains or granules; n. granule: grain or particle
Graphic : Pertaining to the art of delineating; vividly described
Graphite : Black form of carbon used in lead pencils
Grapple : Wrestle; come to grips with; take hold of and struggle with; ex. grapple with
Grate : Make a harsh noise; have an unpleasant effect; shred by rubbing against a rough surface; ex. grated cheese n: framework of metal bars to hold fuel in a fireplace
Gratify : Please; satisfy; ex. gratify a desire
Gratis : Free; without charge; adj.
Gratuitous : Given freely; unwarranted; uncalled for; done without good reason; ex. gratuitous comment
Gratuity : N. money given to sb who has done one a service; tip ;
Gravity : Seriousness; adj. grave
Graze : (of an animal) feed on growing grass; cause (an animal) to feed on grass; scrape (esp. the skin) or touch lightly in passing; brush; ex. we can't graze the cattle till summer; n: surface wound
Gregarious : Sociable; (of an animal) tending to form a group
Grievance : Cause of complaint; complaint
Grill : Question severely; cook on a grill; broil; n: cooking surface of parallel metal bars
Grim : Causing great fear; unrelenting; determined in spite of fear; ex. grim smile
Grimace : Facial distortion to show feeling such as pain, disgust, etc; v.
Grisly : Ghastly; horrifying; ex. grisly remains of the bodies
Groom : Man employed to take care of horses; v: make neat and trim; clean and brush (an animal)
Groove : Long narrow channel made in a surface to guide the movement of something; ex. groove of the record
Gross : Total; fragrant; clearly wrong; (of people's behavior) coarse; corpulent; ex. gross insolence/behavior; v: earn as a total amount; n: 12 dozens
Grotesque : Fantastic; comically hideous; strange and unnatural (causing fear or amusement)
Grotto : Small cavern
Grouch : Bad-tempered complaint; person who keeps complaining; v: complain; grumble
Grouse : Complain; fuss; grumble; grouch; n: plump chickenlike game bird
Grovel : Crawl or creep on ground; remain prostrate; behave in a servile manner
Growl : Low, guttural, menacing sound (as of a dog)
Grudge : Deep feeling of dislike; ex. grudge fight; v.
Gruel : Thin liquid porridge
Grueling : Exhausting; ex. grueling marathon race
Gruesome : Grisly; horrible
Gruff : Rough-mannered; (of a voice) rough; hoarse
Grumble : Complain; mutter discontentedly; grouch; n.
Grunt : Utter a deep guttural sound (as a pig does); n.
Guffaw : Boisterous laughter; v.
Guile : Deceit; duplicity; wiliness; cunning; ex. persuade her by guile
Guileless : Without deceit
Guise : Outward appearance; costume; ex. in a new guise
Gull : Trick; deceive; hoodwink; n: person who is easily tricked; dupe
Gullible : Easily deceived
Gush : (of liquid) pour out in large quantities from a hole; make an excessive display of feeling (without true feeling); ex. blood gushed from the wound.
Gust : Strong abrupt rush of wind; v. cf. bluster
Gustatory : Affecting or relating to the sense of taste
Gusto : Eager enjoyment; zest; enthusiasm
Gusty : Windy
Guy : Cable or chain attached to something that needs to be braced or steadied; cf. guide
Gyroscope : Apparatus used to maintain balance, ascertain direction, etc.
Habitat : Natural home of a plant or animal; cf. habitation
Habituate : Accustom or familiarize; addict
Hackles : Hairs on back and neck, especially of a dog; ex. make someone's hackles rise
Hackneyed : Commonplace; trite
Haggard : Wasted away; gaunt; ex. haggard faces of the rescued miners
Haggle : Argue about prices (in an attempt to bargain)
Halcyon : Calm; peaceful; ex. halcyon days
Hale : Healthy
Halfhearted : Exhibiting little interest or enthusiasm
Hallowed : Blessed; consecrated; ex. hallowed ground; v. hallow: set apart as holy
Hallucination : Delusion; false idea; false perception of objects with a compelling sense of their reality; objects so perceived; v. hallucinate; adj. hallucinatory
Halting : Hesitant; faltering; not fluent; ex. halting steps/voice; v. halt: proceed or act with uncertainty; falter; hesitate; waver; stop
Hamper : Obstruct; prevent the free movement of;
Handsome : Large in quantity; generous; ex. handsome reward
Hap : Chance; luck
Haphazard : Random; by chance; happening in an unplanned manner; ex. haphazard growth of the town
Hapless : Unfortunate; luckless
Harangue : Long, passionate, and vehement speech; v.
Harass : Annoy by repeated attacks
Harbinger : Forerunner (which foreshadows what is to come)
Harbor : Give protection (by giving food and shelter); provide a refuge for; hide; keep in mind (thoughts or feelings); ex. harbor a grudge/criminal; n: place of shelter; refuge
Hardy : (of people or animals) sturdy; robust; (of plants) able to stand inclement(stormy) weather
Harping : Tiresome dwelling on a subject; v. harp: dwell on(think or speak a lot about) tediously
Harrowing : Agonizing; distressing; traumatic; v. harrow: break up and level (soil) with a harrow; inflict great distress on; agonize; n: farming machine to break up the earth
Harry : Harass, annoy, torment (by repeated attacks); raid
Hatch : Deck opening; lid covering a deck opening; v: emerge from an egg; produce (young) from an egg
Haughtiness : Pride; arrogance; adj. haughty
Haunt : (of a spirit) visit (a place); come to mind continually; visit (a place) regularly; frequent; ex. haunted house; ex. haunted by his last words; n: place much frequented
Haven : Place of safety; refuge; harbor; ex. tax haven
Hazard : Venture; put in danger; risk; ex. hazard a guess; n: possible source of danger
Hazardous : Dangerous
Hazy : Slightly obscure; misty; unclear; n. haze: light mist or smoke; confused state of mind
Headfirst : Moving with the head leading; headlong
Headlong : Hasty; rash; headfirst; adv.
Headstrong : Willful; stubborn; unyielding; determined to have one's own way; cf. no 'excessive'
Healthful : Conducive to good health; ex. healthful mountain air
Healthy : Possessing good health; healthful
Heckler : Person who verbally harasses others; v. heckle: verbally harass as with gibes (by interrupting a speaker or speech)
Hedonist : One who believes that pleasure is the sole aim in life; cf. hedonism: practice of living one's life purely for pleasure
Heed : Pay attention to; n: close attention
Heedless : Not noticing; disregarding
Hegemony : Dominance especially of one nation over others
Heinous : Atrocious; wicked; hatefully bad; ex. heinous crime
Helm : Steering wheel of a ship; position of control
Hem : Surround tightly so that movement is impossible; ex. hem in; n.
Herald : Messenger; sign of something to come; v: announce; proclaim; ex. unheralded researcher
Herbivorous : Grain-eating; cf. herbivore
Herd : Group of animals; crowd; one who looks after a herd; ex. shepherd/goatherd; ex. herd instinct; ex. herdsman; v: come together in a herd; look after a herd; ex. herd cattle
Hereafter : Life after death
Heresy : Opinion contrary to popular belief; opinion contrary to accepted religion; adj. heretical; cf. heretic
Hermetic : Concerning alchemy or magic; obscure and mysterious; occult
Hermitage : Home of a hermit
Herpetologist : One who studies reptiles; cf. herpetology: branch of zoology that deals with reptiles and amphibians
Heterodox : (of beliefs) against accepted opinion; unorthodox; unconventional
Heterogeneous : Dissimilar; mixed; not homogeneous; consisting of dissimilar elements or
Hew : Cut to pieces with ax or sword; chop; n.
Heyday : Time of greatest success or power; prime
Hiatus : Gap; pause; gap or interruption in space or time; break
Hibernal : Wintry; wintery; of or like winter
Hibernate : Sleep throughout the winter; n. hibernation
Hide : Skin of an animal
Hideous : Repulsive to the sight; ugly; repugnant; ex. hideous face/scream
Hierarchy : Arrangement by rank or standing; authoritarian body divided into ranks; body of persons having authority
Hieroglyphic : Picture writing; adj.
High-flown : Highly pretentious or inflated
Hilarity : Boisterous mirth(merriment; laughter); adj. hilarious: full of laughter
Hindmost : Furthest behind; farthest to the rear
Hindrance : Block; obstacle; v. hinder
Hindsight : Understanding the nature of an event after it has actually happened
Hinterlands : Back country; inner part of a country; op. foreland
Hireling : One who serves for hire (usually used contemptuously); one who works solely for compensation; ex. hireling politician
Hirsute : Hairy; having a lot of hair
Historic : Important in history; ex. historic battle
Historical : Connected with history; based on events in history (whether regarded as important or not)
Histrionic : Theatrical; excessively dramatic or emotional; affected; of actors or acting; n. histrionics: histrionic behavior
Hive : Box for bees; v: cause to go in a hive
Hoard : Stockpile; accumulate for future use; n: supply stored for future use
Hoary : White with age
Hoax : Trick which makes someone take action; practical joke; ex. hoax mail; v.
Holocaust : Destruction by fire; cf. burnt whole; cf. holocaust
Holster : Leather pistol case (that hangs on a belt around the waist)
Homage : Honor; tribute; great respect; ex. pay/do homage to
Homely : Not good-looking; unattractive
Homespun : Domestic; made at home; spun or woven at home; simple and ordinary; ex. homespun philosophy
Homily : Sermon; tedious moralizing lecture; serious warning; adj. homiletic
Homogeneous : Of the same kind; uniform in composition throughout
Hone : Sharpen (a tool); n: whetstone for sharpening a tool
Hoodwink : Deceive; delude
Horde : Crowd; swarm
Horoscope : Diagram of the positions of stars at a given moment (eg. of a person's birth) used by astrologers
Hortatory : Encouraging; exhortive; marked by exhortation; cf. exhort
Horticultural : Pertaining to cultivation of gardens; n. horticulture: science or art of cultivating fruits, vegetables, or ornamental plants; cf. agriculture: science or art of farming or growing crops
Hostage : Person who is kept as a prisoner by an enemy so that the other side will do what the enemy demands
Hostility : Unfriendliness; hatred; enmity; adj. hostile
Hothead : Person who does things too quickly without thinking; adj. hotheaded
Hovel : Shack; small wretched house
Hover : Hang about; (of birds or aircraft) stay in the air in one place; (of people) wait nearby; stay around one place; waver; be in an uncertain state
Hubbub : Confused uproar; loud noise; din
Hubris : Arrogance; excessive self-conceit
Hue : Color; aspect; ex. opinions of every hue
Hue_and_cry : Outcry; loud cry or clamor; strong protest; ex. hue and cry against the new rule
Hull : Husk; dry outer covering of a seed; frame or body of a ship
Humane : Marked by kindness or consideration; kind and compassionate; humanitarian
Humanitarian : One devoted to the promotion of human welfare; cf. humanism
Humble : Of low rank or position; modest; having a low opinion of oneself and a high opinion of others; unassuming; not proud; v. humiliate: make humble; cause to feel ashamed or to lose the respect of others
Humdrum : Dull; monotonous
Humid : Damp; n. humidity
Humility : Humbleness of spirit
Hummock : Small hill; hillock
Humor : Indulge; comply with the wishes of; n. quality that makes something amusing; state of mind; mood; ex. in a bad humor; ex. out of humor
Humus : Substance or rich soil formed by decaying vegetable matter; cf. soil
Hurl : Throw forcefully; shout out violently
Hurtle : Crash; rush; move with great speed; ex. hurtling runaway train
Husband : Use sparingly; conserve; save; ex. husband one's energy; cf. house holder
Husbandry : Frugality; thrift; economy; agriculture; farming; ex. animal husbandry; cf. husbandman
Hut : Crude dwelling; shack
Hybrid : Mongrel; mixed breed; v. hybridize
Hydrophobia : Fear of water; rabies
Hygiene : Science and practice of the promotion and preservation of health; adj. hygienic: showing careful attention to cleanness (to prevent disease); ex. hygienic condition
Hyperbole : Exaggeration; overstatement; adj. hyperbolic: of hyperbole; of a hyperbola
Hypercritical : Excessively exacting; too critical (without noticing good qualities)
Hypnosis : Induced sleeping state; adj. hypnotic; v. hypnotize
Hypochondriac : Person unduly worried about his health; worrier without cause about illness; adj. cf. hypochondria: neurosis that one is or is becoming ill; cf. abdomen
Hypocritical : Pretending to be virtuous; deceiving; n. hypocrisy: profession of beliefs one does not possess; cf. hypocrite
Hypothetical : Based on assumptions or hypotheses; supposed; n. hypothesis
Ichthyology : Study of fish; cf. ichthyo-: fish
Icon(ikon) : Religious image; idol; image or representation
Iconoclastic : Attacking cherished traditions; n. iconoclast: one who attacks traditional ideas; one who destroys sacred images
Ideology : System of ideas characteristic of a group or culture
Idiom : Expression whose meaning as a whole differs from the meanings of its
Idiosyncrasy : Individual trait usually odd in nature; behavioral peculiarity; eccentricity; attitude, behavior, or opinion peculiar to a person; anything highly individual or eccentric; adj. idiosyncratic
Idle : Not working; not employed or busy; lazy; without purpose; useless; lacking substance; baseless; not based on truth; ex. idle worker; ex. talk idly; v.
Idolatry : Worship of idols; excessive admiration or devotion; adj. idolatrous
Idyll(idyl) : Short poem idealizing rural life; simple happy period of life (in the country); scene from such a time; ex. idyll of two young lovers
Idyllic : Charmingly carefree; simple and happy; ex. idyllic scene
Igneous : Produced by fire; of fire; volcanic; (of rocks) formed from lava; ex. igneous meteorite
Ignite : Kindle; light; catch fire or set fire to
Ignoble : Unworthy; not noble; dishonorable; ex. ignoble deed
Ignominy : Deep disgrace; shame or dishonor; adj. ignominious; ex. ignominous defeat
Illicit : Illegal
Illimitable : Infinite; limitless
Illuminate : Brighten; clear up or make understandable; enlighten; enable to understand; ex. illuminating remarks
Illusion : Misleading vision or visual image; false idea or belief; cf. delusion
Illusive : Deceiving; based on illusion; causing illusion; deceptive
Illusory : Illusive; deceptive; not real
Imbalance : Lack of balance or symmetry; disproportion
Imbecility : Weakness of mind; state of being an imbecile; n. imbecile: stupid person; fool
Imbibe : Drink in
Imbroglio : Complicated situation (as in a play); painful or complex misunderstanding (as in a play); entanglement; confused mass (as of papers); v. embroil
Imbue : Saturate(soak thoroughly); fill; ex. imbue someone with feelings
Immaculate : Spotless; flawless; absolutely clean
Imminent : Impending; near at hand
Immobility : State of being immovable
Immolate : Offer or kill as a sacrifice (by fire)
Immune : Resistant to; free or exempt from; n. immunity
Immure : Imprison; shut up in confinement; cf. wall
Immutable : Unchangeable
Impair : Injure; hurt; damage
Impale : Pierce (with a sharp point); ex. impaled by the spear
Impalpable : Imperceptible(not easily understood); intangible; op. palpable: tangible; easily perceptible
Impart : Grant a share of; make known; ex. news to impart
Impartial : Not biased; fair; n. impartiality
Impassable : Not able to be traveled or crossed
Impasse : Predicament(dangerous condition) from which there is no escape; situation allowing for no further progress
Impassioned : (of speech) filled with passion; fervent
Impassive : Without feeling; expressionless; imperturbable; stoical; ex. impassive face
Impeach : Charge (a public official) with crime in office; raise doubts about; indict; ex. impeach a witness's credibility
Impeccable : Faultless
Impecunious : Without money
Impede : Hide; retard or obstruct the progress of; block
Impediment : Hindrance; stumbling-block; speech defect preventing clear articulation; ex. speech impediment
Impel : Drive or force onward; drive to take action; urge to action
Impending : Nearing; approaching; about to happen
Impenetrable : Not able to be pierced or entered; beyond understanding; impossible to understand; ex. impenetrable mystery
Impenitent : Not repentant
Imperative : Absolutely necessary; that must be done; critically important; expressing command; ex. it is imperative that; n: something that must be done
Imperceptible : Unnoticeable; impossible to perceive; undetectable
Imperial : Like an emperor; related to an empire; cf. imperialism
Imperil : Put in danger
Imperious : Domineering; too commanding; haughty; cf. imperial/emperor
Impermeable : Impervious; not permitting passage through its substance; impossible to permeate
Impersonal : Not being a person; not showing personal feelings; ex. impersonal
Impertinent : Insolent; rude; not pertinent; n. impertinence
Imperturbable : Unshakably calm; placid
Impervious : Impenetrable; incapable of being damaged or distressed; incapable of being affected (in one's opinions); ex. impervious to water/criticism
Impetuous : Violent; hasty; rash; impulsive; without careful thought; ex. impetuous decision
Impetus : Moving force; momentum; force of a moving body; incentive; stimulus; impulse
Impiety : Irreverence; lack of respect for god or piety
Impinge : Infringe; encroach; influence; touch; collide with; ex. the effects are impinging on every aspect of our lives.
Impious : Irreverent
Implacable : Incapable of being pacified; impossible to appease; ex. implacable enemy
Implausible : Unlikely (to be true); unbelievable; ex. implausible alibi
Implement : Put into effect; enforce; carry out; supply with tools; ex. implement the plan/suggestion; n: tool or instrument
Implicate : Incriminate; involve incriminatingly; show to be involved (in a crime); ex. implicate someone in the crime
Implication : Something hinted at or suggested; implying; implicating
Implicit : Understood but not stated; implied; unquestioning and complete; ex. implicit trust
Implode : Burst inward; cf. vaccum tube
Implore : V. ask or beg earnestly; beseech
Imply : Suggest a meaning not expressed; signify
Impolitic : Not wise; not expedient; not politic
Imponderable : Weightless; that cannot undergo precise evaluation; cf. pound
Import : Significance; importance; meaning
Importunate : Urging; always demanding; troublesomely urgent or persistent
Importune : Beg persistently; make repeated requests (in an annoying way)
Imposture : Assuming a false identity; masquerade; cf. impostor
Impotent : Weak; ineffective; lacking in physical strength or power
Impoverish : Make poor; deprive of natural strength or something important; ex. impoverished soil
Imprecation : Curse; swearword
Impregnable : Invulnerable; impossible to capture or enter by force; ex. impregnable fort/argument; cf. take
Impregnate : Make pregnant; fill thoroughly; saturate
Impromptu : Without previous preparation; off the cuff(end of a sleeve); on the spur of the moment
Impropriety : Improperness; unsuitableness
Improvident : Thriftless; not providing for the future
Improvise : Compose on the spur of the moment
Imprudent : Lacking caution; not prudent; injudicious
Impudence : Impertinence; insolence
Impugn : Dispute or contradict (often in an insulting way); attack as false or questionable; challenge; gainsay; cf. fight
Impuissance : Powerlessness; feebleness
Impunity : Freedom from punishment or harm; cf. punish
Impute : Attribute; ascribe; charge; n. imputation
Inadvertently : Unintentionally; by oversight; carelessly
Inalienable : Not to be taken away; nontransferable; ex. inalienable rights
Inamorata : Woman whom a man loves
Inane : Silly; senseless; ex. inane remarks; n. inanity
Inanimate : Lifeless; not animate
Inarticulate : Speechless; producing indistinct speech; not articulate; not expressing oneself clearly
Inasmuch_as : Since; owing to the fact that
Inaugurate : Begin formally; install in office; induct into office by a formal ceremony; n. inauguration; adj. inaugural
Incandescent : Strikingly bright; shining with intense heat; emitting visible light when heated; ex. incandescent light bulb; cf. candle
Incantation : Singing or chanting of magic spells; magical formula; (the saying of) words used in magic; cf. enchant
Incapacitate : Disable; n. incapacity: lack of capacity
Incarcerate : Imprison
Incarnate : Endowed with flesh; invested with bodily form; personified; ex. devil incarnate; v: give bodily form to; embody
Incendiary : Arsonist; adj: causing fire; of arson; ex. incendiary bomb
Incense : Enrage; infuriate(make furious); make extremely angry; outrage; n: aromatic substance burned to produce a pleasant odor
Incentive : Spur; motive; something which encourages one to greater activity
Inception : Start; beginning
Incessant : Uninterrupted; unceasing
Inchoate : (of desire, wish, plan) recently begun; not explicit; at the beginning of development; rudimentary; elementary; ex. inchoate mass
Incidence : Rate of occurrence; particular occurrence; ex. high incidence of infant mortality
Incident : Event; event that causes a crisis
Incidental : Not essential; minor; n: something incidental
Incinerate : Burn to ashes
Incipient : Beginning; in an early stage
Incisive : (appreciatively) cutting; sharp; ex. incisive remarks; v. incise: make a cut into
Incite : Arouse to action; goad; motivate; induce to exist; ex. incite a riot/the crowd to rebellion
Inclement : Stormy; unkind; unmerciful; cf. clement
Incline : Slope; slant; ex. steep incline
Inclined : Tending or leaning toward; bent; v. incline: slant; dispose; be disposed; tend
Inclusive : Tending to include all; all-inclusive; ex. inclusive charge
Incognito : With identity concealed; using an assumed name; adj.
Incoherent : Unintelligible; muddled; unable to express one's thoughts in an orderly manner; illogical; lacking cohesion; not coherent
Incommodious : Not spacious; inconvenient
Incompatible : Inharmonious; n. incompatibility
Incongruity : Lack of harmony; absurdity; adj. incongruous: lacking in harmony; inappropriate
Inconsequential : Insignificant; unimportant
Inconsistency : State of being self-contradictory; lack of uniformity or steadiness; adj. inconsistent: displaying a lack of consistency; erratic; contradictory; incompatible
Incontinent : Lacking self-restraint; not continent; licentious
Incontrovertible : Indisputable; impossible to dispute; not open to question; unquestionable
Incorporate : Introduce something into a larger whole; include; embody; give material form to; adj.
Incorporeal : Without a material body; insubstantial
Incorrigible : Uncorrectable
Incredulity : Tendency to disbelief
Incredulous : Withholding belief; skeptical; showing disbelief
Increment : Increase
Incriminate : Accuse of or implicate in a crime; serve as evidence against; cause to seem or make guilty of a crime; ex. incriminating evidence
Incrustation : Hard coating or crust; v. incrust: encrust; cover with a crust
Incubate : Hatch; warm (eggs) with the body to promote hatching; maintain at optimal environment conditions for development; be holding in one's body an infection which is going to develop into a disease; n. incubation; cf. incubation:disease
Incubus : Burden; very worriying problem; mental care; nightmare; male devil; cf. succubus
Inculcate : Teach (ideas or principles); instill
Incumbent : Obligatory; imposed as an obligation; currently holding an office; n: person who holds an office
Incur : Bring upon oneself
Incursion : Temporary invasion; cf. excursion: short journey
Indecision : Irresolution; inability to make up one's mind
Indecisive : Marked by indecision; inconclusive; ex. indecisive battle
Indefatigable : Tireless; untiring; showing no sign of getting tired
Indelible : Not able to be erased
Indemnify : Make secure against damage or loss; compensate for damage or loss; cf. make uninjured
Indentation : Notch; deep recess; v. indent; cf. tooth
Indenture : Bind as servant or apprentice to master; bind by indenture; n: contract binding one party into the service of another for a specified time (as between an apprentice and his master)
Indeterminate : Uncertain; not clearly fixed; indefinite
Indicative : Suggestive; implying; serving to indicate
Indices : Signs; indications; ex. indices of a student's potential; cf. index: something that reveals or indicates; sign; ex. cost-of-living index
Indifferent : Unmoved or unconcerned by; having no interest in; mediocre; neither good nor bad
Indigence : Poverty
Indigenous : Native; ex. plant indigenous to the new world
Indigent : Poor; destitute
Indignation : Anger at an injustice; ex. righteous indignation; adj. indignant
Indignity : Treatment or situation that causes shame or loss of dignity, respect; offensive or insulting treatment; humiliating or degrading treatment; ex. i suffered the indignity of having to say that in front of them.
Indiscriminate : Choosing at random; confused; not based on careful distinctions
Indisputable : Too certain to be disputed; beyond doubt
Indissoluble : Permanent; impossible to dissolve or disintegrate
Indite : Write; compose
Indoctrinate : Cause to accept a doctrine without questioning it; ex. indoctrinated with mindless anti-communism
Indolent : Lazy
Indomitable : Unconquerable; unyielding
Indubitable : Unable to be doubted; which cannot be doubted; unquestionable
Induce : Persuade; lead to do something; bring about; n. inducement
Induct : Place formally in office; install; admit as a member; initiate; n. induction: inducting; process of deriving general principles from particular facts
Inductive : Pertaining to induction or proceeding from the specific to the general
Indulge : Yield to; gratify; allow oneself a special pleasure; ex. indulge one's every whim/a child/in a big cigarette; n. indulgence
Indulgent : Humoring; yielding; lenient; showing indulgence
Industrious : Diligent; hard-working; n. industry
Inebriate : Make drunk; intoxicate; n. intoxicated person
Inebriated : Habitually intoxicated; drunk; n. inebriety
Ineffable : Unutterable; not to be uttered; taboo; that cannot be expressed in speech; indescribable; unspeakable; inexpressible; ex. ineffable name/joy
Ineffectual : Not effective; not having a desired effect; weak
Ineluctable : Irresistible; not to be escaped; unavoidable
Inept : Unsuited; inappropriate; lacking skill; incompetent; cf. inapt: (of statements or ideas) inappropriate
Inequity : Unfairness; adj. inequitable
Inerrancy : Infallibility
Inert : Inactive; lacking power to move; unable to move or act; ex. chemically inert; n. inertia: state of being inert; force which keeps a thing in the position or state
Inestimable : Impossible to estimate; (apprec) invaluable; of immeasurable worth
Inevitable : Unavoidable
Inexorable : Relentless; unyielding; implacable; not capable of being changed by entreaty or efforts; ex. inexorable price rises
Inextricable : From which it is impossible to get free; that cannot be untied; ex. inextricable troubles; ex. inextricable two histories
Infallible : Unerring; never making mistakes
Infamous : Notoriously bad; notorious; well known for being bad; ex. infamous behavior; n: infamy: infamous act; evil fame or reputation
Infantile : Childish; infantlike
Infer : Deduce; conclude; n. inference
Infernal : Pertaining to hell; devilish; n. inferno: place of fiery heat or destruction
Infest : Inhabit in numbers large enough to be harmful; ex. mice infested the house; ex. shark-infested waters
Infidel : Unbeliever (with respect to a particular religion)
Infiltrate : Pass into or through; penetrate or enter (an organization) sneakily; ex. infiltrate the troops into enemy territory; cf. infiltrator
Infinitesimal : Very small
Infirmity : Weakness
Inflated : Exaggerated; pompous; enlarged (with air or gas)
Influx : Flowing into
Infraction : Violation (of a rule or regulation); breach
Infringe : Violate (a law); encroach (the right of another person)
Ingenious : Marked by inventive skill; clever; resourceful; n. ingenuity
Ingenue : Ing\'enue; young innocent girl
Ingenuous : Naive and trusting; young; unsophisticated; candid
Ingrained : Deeply established; firmly rooted; ex. ingrained dirt/prejudice
Ingrate : Ungrateful person (not expressing thanks)
Ingratiate : Become popular with; bring (oneself) in favor of another; ex. ingratiate himself with the boss
Inherent : Firmly established by nature or habit; intrinsic
Inhibit : Restrain; prohibit; retard or prevent; n. inhibition
Inhibited : (of a person) unable to express what one really feels
Inimical : (of someone) unfriendly; hostile; (of something) harmful; detrimental; cf. enemy
Inimitable : Matchless; not able to be imitated
Iniquitous : Wicked; immoral; unrighteous; n. iniquity; ex. den of iniquity
Initiate : Begin; originate; receive into a group; introduce to a new field or activity; ex. initiate someone into the mysteries of a secret religion; n: one who has been initiated
Injurious : Harmful; causing injury
Inkling : Hint; slight indication
Innate : Inborn
Innocuous : Harmless
Innovation : Change; something newly introduced; introduction of something new; v. innovate: begin or introduce (something new); be creative; adj. innovative
Innuendo : Indirect or subtle (derogatory) hint; insinuation; ex. sexual innuendo
Inopportune : Untimely; inappropriate or ill-timed; poorly chosen
Inordinate : Beyond reasonable limits; unrestrained; excessive; ex. inordinate demands
Inquisitive : Eager for knowledge; unduly curious
Inquisitor : Questioner (especially harsh); investigator; person making an inquisition
Inroad : Hostile invasion; advance that lessens the quantity or difficulty of something; ex. the long illness made serious inroads on his savings; cf. raid
Insalubrious : Unwholesome; not healthful; ex. insalubrious place
Insatiable : Not easily satisfied; unquenchable; ex. insatiable appetite
Inscrutable : Difficult to understand; impenetrable; not readily understood; mysterious
Insensate : Without feeling; lacking sense; foolish
Insensible : Unconscious; unresponsive; insensitive; unaware; imperceptible; ex. insensible of his danger/to pain; ex. insensible change; cf. not the opposite of sensible
Insidious : Treacherous; stealthy; sly; working or spreading harmfully in a stealthy manner; ex. insidious spreading of dry rot
Insightful : Discerning; perceptive
Insipid : Lacking in flavor; lacking interest; dull; ex. insipid food/character
Insolence : Impudent disrespect; haughtiness; adj. insolent; cf. haughty + rude
Insolvent : Bankrupt; lacking money to pay; n. insolvency
Insomnia : Wakefulness; inability to sleep
Insouciant : Without concern or care; unconcerned; indifferent
Instigate : Start; urge; provoke; incite; ex. instigate a search/quarrel
Institute : Organization for a special purpose; v: establish
Institution : Instituting; (building for the) organization; established custom, practice, or relationship in a society; mental hospital; ex. institution of marriage
Institutionalize : Make into an institution; put or confine in an institution
Insubordination : Disobedience; rebelliousness; adj. insubordinate
Insubstantial : Lacking substance; insignificant; frail; immaterial
Insularity : Narrow-mindedness; isolation; adj. insular: of an island; isolated; narrow- minded; cf. peninsula
Insuperable : Insurmountable; unbeatable; ex. insuperable difficulties
Insurgent : Rebellious; n.
Insurmountable : Overwhelming; unbeatable; insuperable
Insurrection : Rebellion; uprising
Intangible : Not able to be perceived by touch; vague
Integral : Complete; necessary for completeness; ex. integral part
Integrate : Make whole; combine; make into one unit
Integrity : Honesty; uprightness; wholeness; state of being whole and undivided; completeness
Intellect : Higher mental powers; person of great intellectual ability
Intelligentsia : Intellectuals; members of the educated elite (often used derogatorily)
Inter : Bury; n. interment
Interdict : Prohibit; forbid; n.
Interim : Meantime; ex. in the interim; adj. taking place during an interim; ex. interim paper
Interjection : Exclamation; ex. ``ouch''
Interloper : Intruder; one who interferes
Intermediary : Intermediate; acting as a mediator; n: mediator; go-between
Interminable : Endless
Intermittent : Periodic; on and off; stopping and starting at intervals
Internecine : Mutually destructive
Interpolate : Insert between
Interregnum : Period between two successive reigns or governments
Interrogate : Question closely; cross-examine; cross-question
Interstice : Narrow space between things
Intervene : Come between; interfere; ex. intervened to prevent a fight; n. intervention
Intimate : Hint; suggest; imply; adj: marked by close relationship; familiar; private; personal; ex. intimate knowledge/thoughts in the diary; n: close friend or confidant; cf. intimacy
Intimidate : Frighten; n. intimidation
Intolerant : Not willing to accept ways of thinking different from one's own; cf. tolerant; cf. tolerate
Intoxicate : Make drunk; stimulate or excite; ex. intoxicated by all the money he might win
Intractable : Unruly; difficult to manage; ex. intractable problem/child
Intransigence : Refusal of any compromise; stubbornness; adj. intransigent: uncompromising
Intrepid : Fearless
Intrigue : Make secret plans; plot; arouse the curiosity of; n: secret scheme; plot; secret love affair
Intrinsic : Essential; inherent; built-in
Introspective : Looking within oneself; n. introspection: self-examination
Introvert : One who is introspective or inclined to think more about oneself; adj. introverted
Intrude : Put or force in without being asked; trespass; enter as an uninvited person; ex. intrude one's own opinion into the report; cf. thrust in
Intuition : Immediate insight; power of knowing without reasoning; adj. intuitive; v. intuit: know by intuition
Inundate : Flood; overflow; submerge; cover completely; ex. inundated with work
Inured : Accustomed; hardened; ex. inured to the alaskan cold; v. inure: make used to something undesirable; harden; cf. unfeeling
Invalid : One incapacitated(disabled) by a chronic illness; adj: incapacitated by illness; not valid; null; v: allow to leave (a military force) because of ill- health
Invalidate : Weaken; destroy; make invalid; nullify
Inveigh : Denounce; utter censure or invective; ex. inveigh against the evils of drink
Inveigle : Deceive; lead astray by deception; wheedle(cajole); ex. inveigle her into joining the club; cf. interest dishonestly
Inverse : Opposite
Invert : Turn upside down or inside out; reverse the position or condition of
Inveterate : Deep-rooted; habitual; cf. grow old
Invidious : Designed to create ill will or envy; tending to rouse ill will or envy; ex. invidious comparison
Invincible : Unconquerable
Inviolable : Secure from corruption, attack, or violation(or profanation); unassailable; ex. inviolable oath/rights; n. inviolability
Invocation : Prayer for help (used in invoking); calling upon as a reference or support; act of invoking
Invoke : Call and bring into use (a right or law); call on/upon (a higher power or god) for help; ask for; beg for; conjure (a spirit); ex. invoke the veto power; ex. invoke one's advisor/god
Invulnerable : Incapable of injury; impossible to damage or injure
Iota : Very small quantity
Irascible : Irritable; easily angered
Irate : Angry; cf. ire: anger; wrath
Iridescent : Exhibiting rainbowlike colors; ex. iridescent oil slick; n. iridescence
Irksome : Annoying; tedious; v. irk: annoy
Ironic : Expressing irony; occurring in an unexpected and contrary manner
Irony : Hidden sarcasm or satire; use of words that seem to mean the opposite of what they actually mean; use of words to convey the opposite of their literal meaning
Irreconcilable : Impossible to reconcile; incompatible; not able to be resolved
Irrefutable : Indisputable; incontrovertible; undeniable
Irrelevant : Not applicable; unrelated
Irremediable : Incurable; uncorrectable; impossible to remedy
Irreparable : Not able to be corrected or repaired; impossible to repair
Irrepressible : Unable to be restrained or held back; impossible to hold back
Irreproachable : Beyond reproach; blameless; impeccable; ex. irreproachable conduct
Irresolute : Uncertain how to act; weak; lacking in resolution; indecisive; n. irresolution
Irretrievable : Impossible to recover or regain; cf. retrieve
Irreverence : Lack of proper respect or reverence; adj. irreverent
Irrevocable : Unalterable; irreversible; impossible to revoke
Isotope : Varying from of an element
Isthmus : Narrow neck of land connecting two larger bodies of land
Itinerant : Wandering; traveling from place to place (to perform work); ex. itinerant preacher
Jab : Poke abruptly with something sharp; punch with short blows
Jabber : Chatter rapidly or unintelligibly
Jaded : Tired or uninterested by surfeit; fatigued; surfeited; worn out; wearied; ex. jaded appetite
Jargon : Language used by special group; technical terminology; gibberish; nonsensical or incoherent talk
Jaundice : Medical condition in which the skin, the white part of the eyes, etc. turn yellow; v: affect with jaundice; affect with prejudice, envy, or hostility; bias
Jaundiced : Yellowed; prejudiced (envious, hostile, or resentful) from long and disappointing experience of human affairs; ex. with a jaundiced eye
Jaunt : Trip; short journey
Jaunty : Cheerful and pleased with life; lighthearted; animated; easy and carefree; dapper in appearance; ex. jaunty person/hat
Jeopardize : Endanger; imperil; put at risk; n. jeopardy: danger
Jest : Playful remark or act; v. act or speak playfully
Jetsam : Things thrown from a ship (to lighten the ship)
Jettison : Throw overboard (from a ship or plane)
Jibe : Agree; be in harmony with; gibe
Jingoist : Extremely aggressive and militant patriot; warlike chauvinist; n. jingoism: extreme nationalism
Jocose : Given to(having a tendency of) joking
Jocular : Said or done in jest or playfully; marked by joking
Jocund : Merry
Jostle : Shove; bump; push against (someone) rather roughly; ex. jostled by the crowds
Jovial : Good-natured; merry; cheerful
Jubilation : Rejoicing; great joy
Judiciary : Judicial branch of government
Judicious : Sound on judgment; wise
Jug : Pitcher; container for holding liquids
Juggernaut : Irresistible crushing force; overwhelming advancing force that crushes everything in its path
Jumble : Mix in a confused way
Juncture : Crisis; point in time; joining point; joint; act of joining
Junket : Trip especially one taken for pleasure by an official at public expense
Junta : Group of persons joined in political intrigue; cabal; group of military officers ruling a country after seizing power (by force)
Juridical : Of the law and its administration; cf. judicial: of courts of law; cf. judiciary
Jurisdiction : Right and power to apply the law; authority
Jurisprudence : Science of law
Juxtapose : Place side by side; cf. next
Kaleidoscope : Tube in which patterns made by the reflection in mirrors of colored pieces of glass, etc. produce interesting symmetrical effects; series of changing events; ex. kaleidoscope of european history; cf. beautiful
Ken : Range of knowledge; ex. beyond one's ken
Kernel : Central or vital part; core; whole seed (as of corn)
Killjoy : Grouch; spoilsport; one who intentionally spoils the pleasure of others
Kindle : Start a fire; ignite; inspire; arouse
Kindred : Related; belonging to the same group; similar in nature or character; ex. kindred languages; n: relative; kin; kinship
Kinetic : Producing motion; of motion
Kismet : Fate; destiny; ex. kismet is the arabic word for fate.
Kleptomaniac : Person who has a compulsive desire to steal
Knave : Untrustworthy person; rogue; scoundrel; jack; n. knavery
Knead : Mix; work dough; mix and work into a uniform mass (with the hands); ex. knead dough
Kneel : Go down on one's knee(s)
Knell : Tolling of a bell especially to indicate a funeral, disaster, etc.; sound of the funeral bell; v.
Knit : Contract into wrinkles; grow together; join together closely; make (a fabric or garment) by interwining yarn or thread; ex. knit the brow; ex. the bones should knit together in a few weeks.
Knoll : Little round hill; hillock
Knotty : Intricate; difficult; tangled; cf. knot
Labile : Likely to change; unstable; ex. emotionally labile; n. lability
Laborious : Demanding much work or care; tedious
Labyrinth : Maze
Lace : Cord used to draw and tie together two opposite edges (as of a shoe); delicate fabric made of fine threads; v: draw together by tying a lace
Laceration : Torn ragged wound; v. lacerate: tear (the skin as with broken glass); wound
Lachrymose : Producing tears; tearful
Lackadaisical : Lacking interest or effort; lacking purpose or zest; lazy; halfhearted; languid
Lackluster : Lacking luster(shine; gloss); dull
Laconic : Brief and to the point; using few words; terse
Lag : Move or develop more slowly; straggle; ex. lag behind the rest; n.
Laggard : Slow; sluggish; n: one who lags; straggler
Lagoon : Shallow body of water or lake near a sea; lake separated from a sea by sandbars or coral reefs
Laity : Laypersons; laymen; persons not connected with the clergy
Lament : Grieve; express sorrow; n. lamentation
Lampoon : Ridicule; n: written attack ridiculing or satirizing a person, group, or institution
Lancet : Small surgical tool for making incisions
Languid : Lacking energy or vitality; weary; sluggish; listless
Languish : Lose animation or strength
Languor : Lack of physical or mental energy; lassitude; depression
Lank : Long and thin; ex. lank, gaunt, abraham lincoln
Lap : Take in food or drink with one's tongue; splash gently; ex. waves lapping the shore; n: front area from the waist to the knees of a seated person
Larceny : Theft; ex. petit larceny
Larder : Pantry; place where food is kept
Largess : Generous gift (given to people who do not have enough)
Lascivious : Lustful
Lassitude : Languor; weariness; listlessness
Latch : Fastening or lock consisting of a movable bar that fits into a notch; v: close with a latch
Latent : Present but not yet noticeable or active; dormant; hidden; n. latency; cf. potential
Lateral : Of or coming from the side
Latitude : Freedom from narrow limitations
Laud : Praise; n. adj. laudable: praiseworthy; adj. laudatory: expressing praise
Lavish : Liberal; wasteful; generous or wasteful in giving or using; abundant; profuse; great; ex. decorated lavishly; v. give in abundance
Lax : Careless; negligent; not paying enough attention; ex. lax service
Layman : Man who is not a cleric; man who is nonprofessional
Leash : Restraining rope fastened to the collar of an animal (to control it); ex. a dog on a leash
Leaven : Add leaven to; cause to rise or grow lighter; enliven; n: agent, such as yeast, that causes dough to rise (by fermentation); element that lightens or enlivens
Leave-taking : Farewell or departure
Lechery : Gross lewdness; lustfulness; adj. lecherous; n. lecher: lecherous man
Lectern : Reading desk or stand for a public speaker
Leery : (of someone) suspicious; wary; cautious
Leeway : Room to move; margin; latitude; ex. leeway for the deadline
Legacy : Gift made by a will; something handed down from an ancestor
Legend : Explanatory list of symbols on a map
Legerdemain : Sleight(dexterity) of hand; cf. light of hand
Legislature : Legislating branch of government; cf. legislate: make laws
Leniency : Mildness; permissiveness; adj. lenient: not severe in judgment or punishment
Leonine : Like a lion
Lethal : Deadly
Lethargic : Drowsy; dull; n. lethargy: state of sluggishness and inactivity
Levee : Earthen or stone embankment to prevent flooding; cf. raise
Levitate : Rise and float in the air (especially by magical means); cf. light
Levity : Lack of seriousness or steadiness; frivolity; lightness of manner
Levy : Impose (a fine); collect (a payment); impose or collect (a tax); ex. levy a tax on tobacco
Lewd : Lustful
Lexicographer : Compiler of a dictionary; cf. lexicography: work of compiling a dictionary
Lexicon : Dictionary
Liability : Drawback; handicap; debts; obligation; responsibility; condition of being liable; adj. liable: likely; responsible (for paying)
Liaison : Contact that keeps parties in communication; communication between groups; one that maintains communication; go-between; secret love affair; v. liaise: keep a connection
Libel : Defamatory written statement; act of writing something that smears a person's character; v. adj. libelous
Libertine : Debauched person; dissolute or licentious person; rou\'e; cf. free
Libidinous : Lustful
Libido : Psychic and emotional energy or urges behind human activity; sexual desire
Libretto : Text of an opera or oratorio; cf. book
License : Official or legal permission; latitude of action or speech; excessive freedom that causes harm or damage; v.
Licentious : Amoral; lewd and lascivious; unrestrained
Lien : Legal claim or right on a property
Ligneous : Like wood
Lilliputian : Extremely small; cf. lilliput in gulliver's travels
Limber : Flexible; supple; pliable; v.
Limbo : Region near heaven or hell where certain souls are kept; prison (slang); ex.
Limn : Draw; outline; describe; cf. line ?
Limp : Walk lamely; adj: lacking firmness; weak
Limpid : Crystal clear
Lineage : Descent; ancestry
Lineaments : Features especially of the face; distinctive shape or contour of the face; cf. line
Linger : Loiter or dawdle; be slow in leaving; delay going; continue or persist; be slow to disappear; ex. the smell lingered for days.
Linguistic : Pertaining to language
Lionize : Treat (a person) as a celebrity
Liquidate : Settle accounts; pay off (a debt); clear up; eliminate; kill or abolish
List : Tilt (as of a ship); lean over (to one side)
Listless : Lacking in spirit or energy; languid
Litany : Supplicatory prayer; prayer in which the priest calls out and the people replies in the same words
Lithe : Flexible; supple; cf. limber
Litigation : Lawsuit; n. litigant: one party in a lawsuit; v. litigate
Litotes : Understatement for emphasis; ex. ``not bad(=pretty good)''
Litter : Waste material thrown away (as bits of paper scattered untidily); v: cover untidily with scattered litter
Livid : Lead-colored; black and blue (as from a bruise); ashen; enraged; extremely angry
Loath : Reluctant; unwilling; disinclined; ex. romeo and juliet were both loath for him to go.
Loathe : Detest; adj. loathsome: arousing loathing; offensive; ex. loathsome smell
Lode : Metal-bearing vein(long deposit of an ore)
Loft : Room or space under the roof; attic
Lofty : Very high
Log : Record of a voyage or flight; record of day-to-day activities; section of a trunk; v.
Loiter : Hang about/around; stand idly about; linger
Loll : Lounge about
Longevity : Long life; long duration
Lookout : Act of keeping watch; high place commanding a wide view; person who keeps watch
Loom : Appear or take shape (usually in an enlarged, indistinct, or distorted form); ex. the shadow of the gallows loomed threateningly. n: apparatus for making thread into cloth
Lope : Gallop slowly
Lopsided : Heavier or larger on one side than the other; ex. lopsided way of walking
Loquacious : Talkative; n. loquacity
Lot : Object used in making a determination at random; fate; piece of land
Lottery : Contest in which winners are selected in a drawing of lots
Lounge : Stand, sit, or lie in a lazy, relaxed way
Lout : Clumsy person; adj. loutish; cf. from countrysides ?
Low : Moo; make the sound of a cow
Lubricate : Apply a lubricant to; n. lubricant: substance that reduces friction
Lucid : Easily understood; clear; intelligible; n. lucidity
Lucrative : Profitable; producing wealth
Lucre : Money; profit; ex. filthy lucre
Ludicrous : Laughable; ridiculous; trifling
Lugubrious : Mournful; sorrowful
Lull : Moment of calm; period of reduced activity; ex. a lull in the rain; v: cause to become less active; cause to sleep or rest; ex. lull the opponents into a false sense of security; cf. lullaby
Lumber : Move heavily or clumsily; ex. the bear lumbered through the woods; n: timber
Lumen : Unit of light energy (one candle's worth)
Luminary : Celebrity (in a specific field); dignitary; object that gives light (as a celestial body)
Luminous : Shining (esp. in the dark); issuing light; ex. luminous paint/road signs
Lunar : Pertaining to the moon
Lunatic : Insane; ex. lunatic asylum
Lurid : Wild; sensational; graphic; gruesome; horrible; ex. lurid details of the murder
Lurk : Stealthily lie in waiting; slink; exist unperceived
Luscious : Pleasing to taste or smell; delicious
Lush : (of a plant or grass) growing very well
Lust : Intense sexual desire; intense eagerness; v.
Luster : Shine; gloss (of a polished surface)
Lustrous : Shining; brilliant; ex. lustrous hair
Luxuriant : Abundant; growing healthily and in large amounts; excessively ornate; rich and splendid; fertile; ex. luxuriant forests/prose; cf. luxurious, luxuriate
Macabre : Gruesome; grisly; ghastly; cf. of death
Mace : Ceremonial staff used as a symbol of authority; clublike medieval weapon
Macerate : Soften by soaking in liquid; waste away; ex. macerate powdered wood to make paper
Machiavellian : Crafty; double-dealing; of the political doctrine of machiavelli, which holds that craft and deceit are justified in pursuing political power
Machinations : Evil schemes or plots; schemes or plots to achieve an evil end; v. machinate
Maculated : Spotted; stained; cf. immaculate
Madrigal : Pastoral song; song for several singers without instruments
Maelstrom : Violent whirlpool; violent or tublent situation; cf. stream
Magisterial : Authoritative; imperious; commanding; of a magistrate; ex. magisterial study of roman law; ex. magisterial manner
Magistrate : Official with power to administer the law
Magnanimity : Generosity; adj. magnanimous: generous
Magnate : Person of prominence or influence; powerful or influential person (in business or industry); ex. oil magnate
Magniloquent : Boastful; pompous
Magnitude : Greatness (in size or extent); extent
Maim : Mutilate; injure lastingly; disable; cripple; ex. maimed for life
Makeshift : Temporary expedient or substitute (in the case of urgent need); ex. makeshift shelter
Maladroit : Clumsy; not skillful; awkward; bungling
Malady : Illness
Malaise : Uneasiness; vague feeling of ill health (without any particular pain or appearance of disease)
Malapropos : Inappropriate; adv.
Malcontent : Person dissatisfied with existing state of affairs; discontented person; adj: discontented
Malediction : Curse
Malefactor : Evildoer; criminal
Maleficient : Doing evil; n. maleficience
Malevolent : Wishing evil; exhibiting ill will; n. malevolence
Malfeasance : Wrongdoing; misconduct (by a public official)
Malicious : Hateful; spiteful; expressing malice; n. malice: desire to harm others; spite
Malign : Speak evil of; bad-mouth(criticize spitefully); defame; adj: harmful; ex. malign influence
Malignant : Tending to cause death; highly injurious; aggressively malevolent; ex. malignant tumor
Malingerer : One who feigns illness to escape duty; v. malinger: feign illness to avoid work
Malleable : (of a metal) capable of being shaped by pounding(beating); pliable; (of someone) impressionable(easily influenced); easily controlled; tractable
Malodorous : Foul-smelling
Mammal : Vertebrate animal whose female suckles its young
Mammoth : Gigantic; enormous
Manacle : Restrain; handcuff; n.
Mandate : Order; charge; authoritative command; power to govern another country; power to given to a government; region under administration; v: give a mandate to; place under a mandate; ex. mandated territory
Mandatory : Obligatory; compulsory; of a mandate
Maneuver(manoeuver) : Strategic military or naval movement (done for training purposes); carefully planned process; stratagem; v: carry out a military maneuver; use maneuvers in gaining an end
Mange : Skin disease (esp. of domestic animals) marked by loss of hair
Mangle : Tear or cut to pieces; mutilate or disfigure; ex. badly mangled bodies
Mangy : Shabby; wretched; suffering from mange; of bad appearance
Manifest : Evident; visible; obvious; v: show plainly
Manifestation : Outward demonstration; manifesting; indication of the presence of something; ex. manifestation of his pronounced musical bent
Manifesto : Public declaration of principles; statement of policy
Manifold : Many in number or kind; numerous; varied
Manipulate : Operate with one's hands; control or play upon (people, forces, etc.) artfully; maneuver; ex. how to manipulate publicity and men; adj. manipulative
Mannered : Affected; not natural; ex. mannered way of speech
Mannerism : Distinctive behavioral trait; affected style in art (according to a set of styles)
Mantle : Loose sleeveless outer garment; cloak; something that covers or envelops; the layer of the earth between the crust and the core
Manumit : Emancipate; free from slavery or bondage
Mar : Spoil the appearance of
Maraud : Move in search of plunder; ex. marauding army
Margin : Border; room; allowance beyond what is needed; ex. margin of safety
Marginal : Of a margin; barely within a limit; ex. marginal effect/writing ability
Marital : Pertaining to marriage
Maritime : Bordering on(adjacent to) the sea; nautical; of the ships or the sea; ex. maritime provinces
Marked : Noticeable; targeted for vengeance or attack; ex. marked improvement/man
Maroon : Leave helpless on a deserted island or coast; adj. red brown
Marred : Damaged; disfigured; v. mar: spoil; disfigure
Marrow : Soft fatty tissue that fills most bone cavities and is the source of blood cells
Marshal : Put in order; guide ceremoniously to the correct place; ex. marshal the children into the museum; n: military officer; official
Marsupial : One of a family of mammals that nurse their offspring in a pouch(pocket of skin or leather); cf. kangaroo, opossum, wombat
Martial : Warlike; of war; ex. martial art/law
Martinet : Strict disciplinarian; person who demands total obedience to rules and orders; cf. jean martinet
Mash : Crush into mash; convert into mash; n: mixture of ground grain and nutrients fed to livestock and fowl
Masochist : Person who enjoys his own pain; cf. masochism
Mason : One who builds or works with stone or brick; n. masonry: work of a mason; stonework or brickwork
Masquerade : Wear a mask or disguise; pretend; n: costume party or ball at which masks are worn; pretense; disguise
Mass : Christian religious ceremony; cf. mass: ceremony of the eucharist
Masticate : Chew
Mat : Not shiny; matte; having a dull finish; n: flat piece of material used as a floor covering; v.
Materialism : Preoccupation with physical comforts and things; excessive regard for worldly concerns (rather than spiritual matters)
Maternal : Motherly; n. maternity: motherhood
Matin\'ee(matinee) : Dramatic or musical performance given in the afternoon
Matriarch : Woman who rules a family or larger social group
Matriculate : Enroll (in college or graduate school); cf. matrix
Matrimony : State of being married
Matrix : Point of origin; array of numbers or algebraic symbols; mold or die; ex. the matrix of western civilization
Maudlin : Effusively sentimental
Maul : Handle roughly; batter; injure by beating; ex. mauled by his overexcited fans; n: heavy long-handled hammer
Mausoleum : Monumental tomb; large stately tomb; cf. mausolos
Mauve : Pale purple
Maverick : Rebel; nonconformist (in a group)
Mawkish : Mushy(sentimental) and gushy; icky-sticky sentimental; excessively and objectionably sentimental
Maxim : Proverb; truth pithily stated
Mayhem : Injury to body; crime of willfully maiming or crippling a person; violent disorder; ex. mayhem in the zoo; cf. maim
Meager : Scanty; inadequate
Mealymouthed : Indirect in speech (when something unpleasant must be said); hypocritical; evasive
Meddlesome : Interfering; v. meddle: interfere
Mediate : Settle a dispute through the services of an outsider; act as an intermediary; produce by mediating; ex. mediate a cease-fire
Mediocre : Ordinary; commonplace; neither good nor bad
Meditation : Reflection; thought; v. meditate
Medium : Element that is a creature's natural environment; nutrient setting in which microorganisms are cultivated; appropriate occupation or means of expression; channel of communication; compromise; middle position between extremes; intervening substan
Medley : Mixture
Meek : Submissive; patient and long-suffering
Megalomania : Mania for doing grandiose things; mental disorder characterized by delusions of wealth, power, or importance
Melancholy : Gloomy; morose; blue; n. adj. melancholic; cf. melancholia
Melee : Fight
Mellifluous : (of words or a voice) sweetly or smoothly flowing; melodious; having a pleasant tune
Memento : Token; reminder of the past; keepsake; ex. memento of your visit
Memoir : Memoirs; autobiography; biography
Memorial : Something, such as a monument or holiday, intended to honor the memory of a person or event; adj: commemorative
Memorialize : Commemorate
Menace : Threat; v: threaten
Menagerie : Collection of wild animals on exhibition; zoo
Mendacious : Lying; habitually dishonest; n. mendacity
Mendicant : Beggar; adj: living as a beggar
Menial : Suitable for servants; lowly; mean; n: someone who does menial work (esp. servant in a house)
Mentor : Counselor; teacher
Mercantile : Concerning trade or merchants
Mercenary : Motivated solely by money or gain; n.
Mercurial : Capricious; quick and changing; fickle; containing the element mercury; ex. mercurial temper; cf. mood
Merger : Combination (of two business corporations); act of merging
Merit : Deserve; adj. meritorious: deserving reward or praise
Mesmerize : Hypnotize; n. mesmerism; cf. franz mesmer
Metallurgical : Pertaining to the art of removing metals from ores; n. metallurgy: science that deals with extracting metals from ores
Metamorphosis : Change of form; ex. metamorphosis of caterpillar to butterfly; v. metamorphose: change by metamorphosis
Metaphor : Implied comparison; cf. simile
Metaphysical : Pertaining to speculative philosophy; of metaphysics; n. metaphysics: branch of philosophy that examines the nature of reality
Mete : Measure; distribute; administer; ex. mete out justice/punishment
Meteoric : Like a meteor; swift; momentarily brilliant; ex. meteoric rise to fame; n. meteor
Meter : Arrangement of words in the form of poetry (by accentual rhythm)
Methodical : Systematic; n. method: systematic method of procedure
Meticulous : Excessively careful (with great attention to detail); painstaking; scrupulous
Metrical : Metric; written in the form of poetry; ex. metrical translation of homer
Metropolis : Large city
Mettle : Courage (to continue bravely in spite of difficulties); spirit; adj. mettlesome
Miasma : Swamp gas; heavy vaporous atmosphere often emanating from decaying matter; pervasive corrupting influence; noxious atmosphere or influence
Microcosm : Small representative world; world in miniature; ex. microcosm of english society
Migrant : Changing its habitat; wandering; ex. migrant birds/workers; n: one that migrates
Migratory : Wandering; v. migrate: move from one region and settle in another; move periodically from one region to another
Milieu : Social environment; means of expression; ex. feel out of one's milieu; ex. his proper milieu is watercolor.
Militant : Combative; bellicose; n.
Militia : Army composed of ordinary citizens rather than professional soldiers
Millennium : Thousand-year period (as in the new testament); hoped-for period of happiness and prosperity
Mime : Pantomime(act without dialogue); mimicry; mimer; v: mimic; pantomime
Mimicry : Imitation
Minatory : Menacing; threatening
Mincing : Affectedly dainty(delicate); v. mince: cut (esp. meat) into very small pieces; walk with exaggerated primness; walk in an unnatural way, taking little short steps; ex. the actor minced across the stage; cf. mincemeat; cf. mincer
Mingle : Mix together in close association
Miniature : Small model; small painting; adj: small
Minion : Servile dependent; obsequious follower
Minuscule(miniscule) : Extremely small
Minute : Extremely small; cf. minutes: official record of the proceedings at a meeting
Minutiae : Petty or trivial details; cf. minutia
Mirage : Unreal reflection; optical illusion
Mire : Entangle; stick in swampy ground; stick or sink in mire; n: bog; deep mud; ex. sucked deeper into the mire
Mirth : Merriment; laughter
Misadventure : Mischance; ill luck; ex. death by misadventure
Misanthrope : One who hates mankind; misanthropist
Misapprehension : Error; misunderstanding; v. misapprehend
Miscellaneous : Made up of a variety of parts
Miscellany : Mixture of writings on various subjects; collection of various items
Mischance : Ill luck
Mischief : Behavior (of children) causing trouble with no serious harm; damage; harm; ex. mischief to the crops; adj. mischievous: causing mischief; playfully troublesome
Misconduct : Immoral behavior; bad management; v.
Misconstrue : Interpret incorrectly; misinterpret; misjudge
Misdemeanor : Minor crime; misdeed; wrongdoing
Miserly : Stingy; mean
Misgivings : Doubts
Mishap : Unfortunate accident
Misnomer : Wrong or improper name; incorrect designation
Misogamy : Hatred of marriage
Misogynist : Hater of woman; cf. misogyny
Missile : Object to be thrown or projected
Missive : Letter; written statement; cf. sent
Mite : Very small object or insect-like creature; small coin
Mitigate : Appease; moderate; make or become less in force or intensity
Mnemonic : Pertaining to memory; assisting the memory; n: device, such as as formula or rhyme, used as a mnemonic aid
Mobile : Movable; not fixed; n. mobility
Mock : Ridicule; deride; imitate often in derision
Mode : Prevailing style; current fashion; manner; way of doing something; ex. in the latest mode; ex. simple mode of life
Modicum : Limited quantity; small amount; ex. he does not have a modicum of sense; cf. moderate
Modish : Fashionable; conforming to the current fashion
Modulate : Tone down in intensity; change the intensity or tone of; regulate; change from one musical key to another; ex. modulate from e to g
Mogul : Powerful person; ex. oil moguls; cf. mogol, moghul; cf. mongolian
Molecule : The smallest particle (one or more atoms) of a substance that has all the properties of that substance
Mollify : Soothe an angry person
Mollycoddle : Pamper; coddle; baby; indulge excessively
Molt(moult) : Periodically shed or cast off hairs or feathers (for replacement by a new growth)
Molten : Melted; ex. molten lava
Momentous : Very important; n. moment; cf. momentary
Momentum : Quantity of motion of a moving body; impetus; moving force
Monarchy : Government under a single ruler
Monastic : Related to monks or monasteries; removed from worldly concerns
Monetary : Pertaining to money
Mongrel : Plant or animal (esp. a dog) of mixed breed; adj.
Monochromatic : Having only one color
Monochrome : Painting in only one color; adj.
Monogram : Design composed of one or more initials of a name; v.
Monograph : Scholarly article
Monolithic : Solidly uniform; unchangeable; unyielding; n. monolith: large block of stone
Monotheism : Belief in one god
Monotony : Sameness leading to boredom; monotonousness; adj. monotonous; cf. monotone
Monumental : Massive; impressively large; built as a monument
Moodiness : Fits of depression or gloom; adj. moody: given to changeable moods; subject to periods of depression; gloomy cf. mood: | state of mind or emotion
Moratorium : Legal delay of payment or action; ex. declare moratorium on the building of new houses
Morbid : Given to unwholesome or unhealthy thought; moody; characteristic of disease; ex. morbid curiosity; n. morbidity; cf. disease
Mordant : Biting; sarcastic; stinging; (apprec.) incisive; cutting; ex. mordant pen/wit
Mores : Conventions; moral standards; moral customs
Morgue : Mortuary; place where bodies are kept before burial or cremation
Moribund : Dying; at the point of death; cf. death
Morose : Ill-humored; sullen; sullenly melancholy
Mortar : Vessel in which substances are crushed with a pestle
Mortician : Undertaker; cf. death
Mortify : Humiliate by embarassing excessively; shame; punish the flesh; discipline (one's body) by self-denial; ex. mortified by her blunder; ex. mortify the flesh; cf. cause to die
Mosaic : Picture made of small colorful inlaid tiles; adj.
Mote : Small speck (esp. of dust)
Motif : Theme; recurrent thematic element in a musical or literary work; single or repeated pattern; figure
Motility : Ability to move spontaneously; adj. motile: moving spontaneously
Motley : Multi-colored (as of a garment worn by a jester); mixed; heterogeneous; cf. jester: one who jests (as a paid fool at medieval courts)
Mottled : Blotched in coloring; spotted; ex. mottled face; v. mottle: mark with blotches of different colors
Motto : Brief statement used to express a principle
Mountebank : Charlatan; boastful pretender
Muddle : Confuse; mix up confusedly; n: state of confusion
Muggy : (of weather) warm and damp
Mulct : Defraud a person of something; swindle; ex. mulct the boy of his legacy
Multifarious : Varied; greatly diversified; ex. multifarious activities
Multiform : Having many forms
Multilingual : Having many languages; fluent in several languages
Multiplicity : State of being numerous or multiple; large number; ex. multiplicity of details; adj. multiple: of more than one element
Mundane : Worldly as opposed to spiritual; everyday; of the ordinary; ex. mundane existence; cf. world
Munificent : Very generous in giving; ex. munificent benefactor; n. munificience
Mural : Wall painting
Murky : Dark and gloomy; thick with fog; vague; ex. murky night/fog; n. murk: partial or complete darkness; gloom
Murmur : Low, indistinct, continuous sound; v. cf. mumble
Muse : Ponder at length; n: source of inspiration (esp. of a poet)
Musky : Having the odor of musk; n. musk: odorous substance secreted by an asian deer
Muster : Gather; assemble (troops); ex. muster up one's strength for the ordeal; n.
Musty : Stale (in odor or taste); spoiled by age; cf. moist
Mutablility : Ability to change in form; fickleness; adj. mutable: able to change; fickle; cf. mutate; cf. mutant
Mute : Silent; without speech; not pronounced; unable to speak; n: one who is incapable of speech; v: soften the sound, color, shade of
Muted : Silent; muffled; toned down; ex. muted traffic noise
Mutilate : Maim; injure lastingly; deprive of a limb or an essential part
Mutter : Utter (complaining words) indistinctly in low tones
Myopic : Nearsighted; lacking foresight; n. myopia
Myriad : Very large number; adj. cf. ten thousand
Nadir : Lowest point; point on the celestial sphere diametrically opposite the zenith
Naivet\'e(naivety) : Quality of being unsophisticated; simplicity; artlessness; gullibility; adj. naive(na\"ive): ingenuous; lacking worldliness; simple; credulous
Narcissist : Conceited person; n. narcissism; cf. narcissus
Narrative : Related to telling a story; n: narrated account; story; v. narrate: tell (a story); cf. narration
Nascent : Incipient; coming into being or existence; ex. nascent ability in music
Natal : Connected with birth; cf. prenatal; cf. postnatal
Natation : Swimming
Natty : Neatly or smartly dressed; dapper; smart; ex. natty dresser
Nausea : Feeling of sickness and desire to vomit; disgust; cf. seasickness
Nauseate : Cause to become sick; fill with disgust; fill nausea
Nauseous : Causing nausea; feeling nausea
Nautical : Pertaining to ships or navigation
Navigable : (of a body of water) wide and deep enough to allow ships to pass through; (of a ship or aircraft) able to be steered
Nebula : Diffuse mass of interstellar dust or gas; galaxy
Nebulous : Vague; hazy; cloudy; of a nebula; ex. nebulous proposal
Necromancy : Black magic; sorcery; dealings with the dead; art that professes to communicate with the spirits of the dead so as to predict the future; cf. necromancer; cf. necro+divination; cf. necro-: death; ex. necropolis
Nectar : Drink of the gods; sweet liquid collected by bees
Nefarious : Very wicked
Negligence : Neglect; failure to take reasonable care; adj. negligent: neglectful; lax; not taking enough care
Negligible : So small, trifling, or unimportant as to be easily disregarded
Nemesis : Someone seeking revenge; source of downfall or ruin; cf. nemesis
Neologism : New or newly coined word or phrase
Neophyte : Recent convert; new member of a religious group; beginner; cf. plant
Nepotism : Favoritism (to a relative); cf. nephew
Nether : Lower; ex. nether garments/regions
Nettle : Irritate; annoy; vex; adj. nettlesome
Nexus : Connection
Nib : Beak(bill); pen point
Nicety : Precision; accuracy; minute distinction or difference; ex. to a nicety: exactly; precisely; ex. distinguish between niceties
Niggardly : Meanly stingy; parsimonious; n. niggard: stingy person
Niggle : Spend too much time on minor points (esp. when finding fault); find fault; ex. niggle over details; adj. niggling
Nihilist : One who considers traditional beliefs to be groundless and existence meaningless; absolute skeptic; revolutionary terrorist; cf. nihilism: belief that nothing has meaning or value; belief that destruction of existing political or social institutio
Nimble : Quick in movement; agile; quick in understanding; ex. nimble climber/mind
Nip : Snip off; stop something's growth or development; bite; make numb with cold; ex. nip the plan; ex. a guard dog nipped the postman; ex. fingers nipped by the extreme chill
Nirvana : In buddhist teachings, the ideal state in which the individual loses himself in the attainment of an impersonal beatitude
Nocturnal : Done or active at night; ex. nocturnal animals/raids; cf. nocturne
Noisome : Foul smelling; very unpleasant; unwholesome
Nomadic : Wandering; n. nomad: tribe who migrates from place to place
Nomenclature : Terminology(system of specialized words); system of names or naming things
Nominal : In name only; of a name; trifling; (of a sum of money) very small; cf. nominate: propose as a candidate; appoint
Noncommittal : Neutral; refusing commitment to a particular opinion; unpledged; undecided
Nondescript : Undistinctive; ordinary; ordinary-looking; ex. nondescript fellow in a crowd
Nonentity : Person of no importance; nonexistence
Nonplus : Put at a loss; bring to a halt by confusion; perplex; cf. no more
Nonsense : Speech or writing with no meaning; foolish behavior or language; ex. make (a) nonsense of: spoil; cause to fail
Noose : Loop formed in a rope
Nostalgia : Homesickness; longing for the past; ex. nostalgia for the clothes of 1920s; adj. nostalgic
Nostrum : Questionable medicine; quack medicine; cf. our (remedy)
Notable : Conspicuous; worthy of note; remarkable; important; distinguished; noted
Notch : V-shaped cut in a surface; v.
Notoriety : Disrepute; ill fame
Nourish : Provide with food necessary for life and growth
Nourishment : Something that nourishes; food
Nova : Star that suddenly becomes much brighter and then returns to its original brightness
Novelty : Something new; newness; adj. novel: new; original
Novice : Beginner
Noxious : Harmful; cf. obnoxious
Nuance : Shade of slight difference in meaning or color; subtle distinction
Nubile : Marriageable; of marriageable age; cf. connubial
Nugatory : Worthless; futile
Nullify : Make invalid; make null; invalidate
Numismatist : Person who collects coins; n. numismatics: study or collection of money, coins, and medals
Nuptial : Related to marriage or the wedding ceremony; n. nuptials: wedding ceremony
Nurse : Suckle; take care of (as a nurse); bear in mind; ex. nursing mother; ex. nurse a hope/grudge against someone
Nurture : Nourish; feed; educate; rear; care for while it is growing or developing; foster; cultivate; n: something that nourishes; rearing
Nutrient : Nourishing substance; adj: providing nourishment
Nutrition : Process of nourishing or being nourished; cf. malnutrition
Nutritious : Providing nourishment
Oaf : Stupid awkward person; cf. elf
Oath : Solemn promise; blasphemous use of sacred words to express strong feelings; swear-word; ex. ``for christ's sake''
Oatmeal : Crushed oats used for making porridge
Obdurate : Stubborn; refusing to change one's belief
Obeisance : Bow (to show respect and obedience)
Obelisk : Tall column tapering(becoming gradually narrower toward the end) and ending in a pyramid
Obese : Excessively fat; n. obesity
Obfuscate : Confuse; muddle; cause confusion; make needlessly complex; make so confused as to be difficult to understand
Obituary : Death notice (esp. in a newspaper); adj.
Objective : Not influenced by emotions; fair; n: goal; aim
Obligatory : Binding; required; compulsory; v. oblige: constrain; make grateful; do a favor; accommodate
Oblique : Indirect; slanting (deviating from the perpendicular or from a straight line); ex. oblique reference
Obliterate : Destroy completely; wipe out; ex. obliterate the village
Oblivion : Obscurity; condition of being completely forgotten; forgetfulness
Oblivious : Inattentive or unmindful; unaware; wholly absorbed; forgetful(having the habit of forgetting)
Obloquy : Slander; disgrace; infamy
Obnoxious : Offensive; disagreeable; ex. obnoxious smell
Obscure : Dark; vague; unclear; not well known; ex. obscure meaning/village; v: darken; cover; make unclear; ex. obscure the moon/meaning
Obsequious : Slavishly attentive; servile; full of servile compliance; sycophantic
Obsequy : Funeral ceremony
Obsessive : Related to thinking about something constantly; of an obsession; preoccupying; n. obsession: compulsive preoccupation with a fixed idea; compulsive idea; v. obsess: preoccupy the mind of excessively
Obsidian : Black volcanic rock
Obsolete : Outmoded; no longer used
Obstetrician : Physician specializing in delivery(assisting in giving birth) of babies; n. obstetrics; cf. midwife
Obstinate : Stubborn; hard to control or treat; ex. obstinate cough; n. obstinacy
Obstreperous : Boisterous; noisy and uncontrollable
Obtrude : Push (oneself or one's ideas) forward or intrude; impose (oneself or one's ideas) on others; butt in; stick out or extrude; thrust out; ex. obtrude a on b; adj. obtrusive; n. obtrusion; cf. unobtrusive
Obtuse : Blunt; not sharp; stupid; slow in understanding
Obviate : Make unnecessary; get rid of; ex. obviate the need
Occident : The west
Occlude : Shut; close; obstruct; ex. a blood clot occluded an artery.
Occult : Mysterious; secret; supernatural; beyond human comprehension; cf. mysterious to human ?; op. bare
Oculist : Physician who specializes in treatment of the eyes
Odds : Chances; probability; disagreement; ex. the odds are that it will rain. ex. at odds with
Odious : Arousing strong dislike; hateful(causing hatred); vile
Odium : Detestation; quality of being odious; hatefulness; disrepute (resulting from hateful conduct)
Odoriferous : Giving off an odor
Odorous : Having an odor
Odyssey : Long, eventful, adventurous journey
Offensive : Attacking; insulting; distasteful; v. offend: violate; hurt the feelings of; n. offense: offending; violating of a moral or social code; crime; attack; ex. first offense
Offhand : Casual; done without prior thought or preparation
Officious : Meddlesome; excessively pushy in offering one's services; overly eager in offering unwanted services or advices; ex. officious bellboy
Ogle : Look at amorously; make eyes at; ex. old men ogling young girls
Olfactory : Concerning the sense of smell
Oligarchy : Government by a privileged few
Ominous : Threatening; of an evil omen
Omnipotent : All-powerful; having unlimited power
Omnipresent : Universally present; ubiquitous
Omniscient : All-knowing
Omnivorous : Eating both plant and animal food; devouring everything
Onerous : Burdensome
Onomatopoeia : Words formed in imitation of natural sounds
Onslaught : Vicious assault; fierce attack; ex. unexpected onslaught of the enemy
Onus : Burden; responsibility
Ooze : (of a thick liquid) pass or flow slowly; n: mud or thick liquid as at the bottom of a river
Opalescent : Iridescent; lustrous; like an opal; n. opalescence
Opaque : Dark; not transparent; n. opacity
Opiate : Medicine to induce sleep or deaden pain; something that relieves emotions or causes inaction; sleep-producing drug containing opium
Opportune : Timely; well-chosen
Opportunist : Individual who sacrifices principles for expediency by taking advantage of circumstances; n. opportunism
Opprobrium : Infamy; disgrace arising from shameful conduct; vilification(slander); scorn; contempt; ex. opprobrium hurled against him; adj. opprobrious: expressing contempt; shameful or infamous
Optician : Maker and seller of eyeglasses
Optimist : Person who looks on the bright side; n. optimism
Optimum : Most favorable; optimal; n: most favorable condition
Optional : Not compulsory; left to one's choice; n. option: act of choosing; choice; freedom or power to choose; something available as a choice; ex. have no option; ex. two options
Optometrist : One who fits glasses to remedy visual defects
Opulence : Extreme wealth; luxuriousness; abundance; adj. opulent: possessing great wealth; abundant
Opus : Work (esp. musical composition); ex. magnum opus: masterpiece; cf. opera
Oracular : Of an oracle; prophetic; uttered as if with divine authority; mysterious or ambiguous; hard to understand; n. oracle: wiser person; prophecy made by an oracle
Orator : Public speaker
Oratorio : Dramatic poem set to music; long musical work with singing but without acting; cf. cantata
Ordeal : Severe trial or affliction; difficult experience; trial(test of patience or endurance); affliction
Ordinance : Decree; authoritative order
Ordination : Ceremony conferring holy orders; ceremony of ordaining a priest
Orgy : Wild drunken revelry; unrestrained indulgence in an activity; ex. orgy of shopping
Orient : Get one's bearings; adjust; make familiar with a situation; orientate
Orientation : Act of finding oneself in society; orienting
Orifice : Mouthlike opening; small opening (esp. to a cavern or passage of the body); cf. mouth
Ornate : Excessively or elaborately decorated
Ornithologist : Scientific student of birds; n. ornithology: scientific study of birds
Orthodox : Traditional; (of someone) conservative in belief; adhering to an established doctrine
Orthography : Correct spelling; cf. ortho-: straight; correct; ex. orthodontics
Oscillate : Vibrate pendulumlike; waver
Osseous : Made of bone; bony
Ossify : Change or harden into bone; become hard and unchanging in one's ideas
Ostensible : Apparent; appearing as such; professed(pretended); pretended; ex. ostensible purpose of the expedition
Ostentatious : Showy; trying to attract attention; pretentious; n. ostentation: showy display
Ostracize : Banish from a group; exclude from public favor; ban; ex. his friends ostracized him. n. ostracism
Oust : Expel; drive out; force out; n. ouster: ousting
Outcast : One that has been excluded from a society; adj.
Outfit : Clothing or equipment for a special purpose; ex. cowboy outfit
Outgoing : Sociable; eager to mix socially with others
Outlandish : Bizzare; peculiar; unconventional
Outlaw : Fugitive from the law (excluded from legal protection); v: declare (someone) to be an outlaw; deprive of the protection of the law; declare illegal; ex. drinking has been outlawed.
Outlook : Point of view; view from a particular place; expectation for the future; prospect; ex. outlook on life; ex. pleasing outlook; ex. weather outlook
Outmoded : No longer in fashion or use; no longer stylish; old-fashioned
Outrage : Act of extreme violence or viciousness; resentful anger; v: commit an outrage on; produce anger in; adj. outrageous: offensive
Outskirts : Fringes; outer borders (as of a city); ex. outskirts of boston
Outspoken : Candid; blunt
Outstrip : Outrun; surpass; outdo
Outwit : Outsmart; defeat by behaving more cleverly
Ovation : Enthusiastic applause
Overbearing : Bossy; domineering and arrogant; decisively important; ex. overbearing manner/importance; v. overbear: dominate
Overblown : Inflated; exaggerated
Oversee : Watch over and direct; supervise; n. oversight: unintentional failure to notice or do something; supervision
Overt : Open to view; public; not secret; cf. covert
Overthrow : Topple; n.
Overture : Musical introduction to a long musical piece; first offer or proposal (to begin talks in the hope of reaching an agreement); ex. overtures for peace
Overturn : Turn over; capsize; topple
Overweening : Arrogant; presumptuous
Overwhelm : (of water) cover completely; defeat completely by much greater force; ex. overwhelmed by grief
Overwrought : Nervous or excited; extremely agitated; hysterical; wrought-up; cf. wrought: made or done
Pachyderm : Thick-skinned animal
Pacifist : One opposed to force; antimilitarist; adj. n. pacifism: opposition to war as a means of resolving disputes
Pacify : Soothe; make calm or quiet; subdue; bring peace to
Padre : Chaplain (in the armed forces)
Paean : Song of praise or joy; ex. paeans celebrating the victory
Palatable : Agreeable; pleasing to the taste
Palate : Roof of the mouth; sense of the taste
Palatial : Of or suitable for a palace; magnificent
Paleontology : Study of prehistoric life or fossils; cf. paleo-: ancient or prehistoric; ex. paleography: study of ancient written documents
Palette : Board on which painter mixes pigments(coloring matters)
Palimpsest : Parchment or piece of writing material used for second time after original writing has been erased
Pall : Become boring; grow tiresome
Pallet : Small poor bed; ex. straw pallet
Palliate : Ease pain (without curing); make less severe or offensive (a crime or illness)
Pallid : Pale; wan; ex. pallid complexion
Palm : Conceal in the palm of the hand; palm off: pass off; ex. palm off some bad oranges onto the lady/the painting as a real renoir
Palpable : Tangible; (of something bad) easily perceptible; obvious; ex. palpable blunder
Palpitate : Throb; beat rapidly; flutter; tremble; ex. her heart began to palpitate.
Paltry : Insignificant; petty; trifling; contemptible; ex. paltry sum; cf. trash
Pan : Criticize harshly
Panacea : Cure-all; remedy for all diseases
Panache : Flair; manner of doing things without any difficulty (causing admiration); flamboyance; bunch of feathers (on a helmet); ex. with great panache;
Pandemic : Widespread; affecting the majority of people; n: pandemic disease; cf. all people
Pandemonium : Wild tumult(commotion); wild noisy disorder; cf. paradise lost
Pander : Cater to (the low desires of others)
Panegyric : Formal praise; encomium; ex. i don't deserve such panegyrics.
Pang : Sudden sharp feeling of pain
Panoramic : Denoting an unobstructed and comprehensive view; n. panorama: unbroken view of a wide area
Pantomime : Acting without dialogue; v.
Papyrus : Ancient paper made from stem of papyrus plant
Parable : Short simple story teaching a moral
Paradigm : Model; example that serves as a model; pattern; list of all the inflectional forms of a word
Paradox : Something apparently contradictory in nature (that may nonetheless be true); statement that looks false but is actually correct
Paragon : Model of perfection; ex. paragon of virtue
Parallel : Similar; analogous; corresponding; n: parallel line; person or thing that is parallel (to another); similarity; ex. know of no parallel to the case; ex. without parallel; v: be similar to; make parallel; ex. your experience parallels mine; cf. unp
Parallelism : State of being parallel; similarity; analogy
Parameter : Limit; independent variable; ex. parameters of the problem; ex. within the parameters of the budget
Paramount : Foremost in importance; supreme; cf. para-: beyond; above; ex. paranormal
Paramour : Illicit lover
Paranoia : Psychosis marked by delusions of grandeur or persecution; n: adj: paranoid, paranoiac
Paraphernalia : Equipment; odds and ends used in a particular activity; personal belongings; ex. photographic paraphernalia; cf. married woman's property exclusive of her dowry
Paraphrase : Restate a passage in one's own words while retaining thought of author; n: restatement of a text in other words
Parasite : Animal or plant living on another; toady; sycophant; cf. para-: beside
Parched : Extremely dry; very thirsty; v. parch: make or become extremely dry (by exposure to heat)
Parchment : Writing material made from the skin of a sheep or goat
Pare : Cut away the outer covering or skin of (with a knife); trim; ex. pare apples/expenses
Pariah : Social outcast; ex. mariah the pariah
Parish : Area in the care of a single priest and served by one main church
Parity : Equality; close resemblance; cf. disparate
Parlance : Language; manner of speaking; idiom; ex. in legal/common parlance
Parley : Conference (between opponents); cf. speak
Parochial : Narrow in scope or outlook; provincial; related to parishes
Paroxysm : Fit or attack of pain, laughter, rage; sudden outburst
Parquet : Floor made of wood strips inlaid in a mosaic like matter; cf. strip: long narrow piece
Parry : Ward off a blow; deflect; ex. he parried the unwelcome question very skillfully; n.
Parsimony : Stinginess; excessive frugality; adj. parsimonious
Partial : Incomplete; favoring one side over another; having a liking for something
Partiality : State of being partial; inclination; favorable bias; special fondness; preference
Partisan : One-sided; prejudiced; committed to a party (with dislike of any others); n: strong supporter of a party; guerrilla
Partition : Divide into parts
Parvenu : Upstart; newly rich person
Pass\'e : Old-fashioned; past the prime
Pass_off : Present falsely; represent falsely to be
Passive : Not active; acted upon; receiving an action without acting in return; accepting without resistance
Paste : Smooth viscous mixture as of flour(powder made by crushing grain) and water (used as an adhesive); v: cause to adhere by applying paste
Pastiche : Imitation of another's style in musical composition or in writing; work of art openly imitating the works of other artists
Pastoral : Rural; of rural life; idyllic; of a pastor
Pastry : Paste of flour and water (eaten when baked)
Patent : Obvious; easily seen; open for the public to read; of or protected by a patent; ex. patent to everyone; n.
Pathetic : Causing sadness, compassion, pity; touching
Pathological : Pertaining to disease; n. pathology: study of disease
Pathos : Tender sorrow; pity; quality in art or literature that produces these feelings; ex. pathos that runs through the novel
Patina : Green crust on old bronze works or copper; tone slowly taken by varnished painting
Patois : Local or provincial dialect
Patriarch : Father and ruler of a family or tribe
Patrimony : Property inherited from a father
Patronize : Support; act superior toward; treat in a condescending manner; be a customer of; n. patron: one that supports; regular customer; n. patronage; cf. boycott
Paucity : Scarcity; dearth
Pauper : Very poor person
Peccadillo : Slight offense or fault; cf. sin
Pecuniary : Pertaining to money
Pedagogue : Teacher; cf. child leader
Pedagogy : Teaching; art of education
Pedant : Scholar who overemphasizes book learning, trivial details of learning, or technicalities
Pedantic : Bookish; showing off learning; marked by an excessive ostentatious concern for book learning; n. pedantry
Peddle : Travel about selling (wares); cf. foot
Pedestal : Support or base as for a pillar or statue
Pedestrian : Ordinary; dull; unimaginative(lacking in imagination); going on foot; ex. pedestrian prose; n.
Pediatrician : Physician specializing in children's diseases; n. pediatrics
Pedigree : Ancestry; lineage
Peer : One who has equal standing with another; nobleman; v: look intently; n. peerage; cf. peeress
Peerless : Having no equal; incomparable
Peevish : Bad-tempered; irritable; v. peeve: make angry
Pejorative : (of a word or phrase) suggesting that someone is of little value; negative in connotation; having a belittling effect; ex. many women now considers ``housewife'' a pejorative expression, because it patronized them.
Pell-mell : In confusion; disorderly; ex. dash pell-mell
Pellucid : Transparent; limpid(crystal clear); clear in meaning; easy to understand
Pen : Fenced enclosure for animals; confining space; ex. sheep pen; v: confine in a pen; enclose
Penance : Self-imposed punishment for sin; ex. do penance for one's sins; cf. penitent
Pendant(pendent) : Hanging down from something; pending; n: ornament (hanging from a necklace etc.)
Pending : Not yet decided or settled; impending; ex. pending decision; prep. while awaiting; until; ex. delay the decision pending his return
Pendulous : Hanging; suspended
Penetrate : Enter into; pierce; permeate; see through; grasp the inner significance of; understand
Penitent : Repentant; n.
Penology : Study of prison management and criminal rehabilitation
Pensive : Dreamily or deeply thoughtful; sadly thoughtful; thoughtful with a hint of sadness; contemplative; cf. think over
Penumbra : Partial shadow (in an eclipse); cf. almost shadow
Penury : Extreme poverty; stinginess; adj. penurious: very poor; stingy
Peon : Landless agricultural worker; bond servant; menial worker; n. peonage
Perceptive : Insightful; showing a good ability at perceiving and understanding; aware; wise; of perception
Percussion : Striking one object against another sharply; ex. percussion instrument; n: striking together of two bodies; sound caused by percussion
Perdition : Damnation; complete ruin; hell
Peregrination : Journey; v. peregrinate
Peremptory : Demanding and leaving no choice; imperative; ex. peremptory decree/knock
Perennial : Something long-lasting; perennial plant; adj: lasting through the year or many years; lasting for a long time; enduring
Perfidious : Treacherous; disloyal; n. perfidy: treachery
Perforate : Pierce; put a hole through
Perfunctory : Done routinely and with little care; superficial; not thorough; lacking interest, care, or enthusiasm; ex. perfunctory kiss
Perigee : Point of moon's orbit when it is nearest the earth; cf. apogee
Perimeter : Outer boundary; length of the outer boundary; circumference
Peripatetic : Walking about from place to place (to work); moving; ex. peripatetic school of philosophy
Periphery : Outside edge especially of a round surface; perimeter; ex. periphery of the town
Perjury : False testimony while under oath; v. perjure oneself: testify falsely under oath
Permeable : That can be permeated; penetrable; porous; allowing liquids or gas to pass through; v. permeate: spread or flow throughout; charge
Permissive : Allowing much freedom; lenient; ex. permissive society
Pernicious : Very harmful; deadly; very destructive; ex. pernicious effect/anemia
Peroration : Conclusion of an oration; perorating; v. perorate: conclude a speech; speak at great length
Perpetrate : Commit an offense; do (something wrong)
Perpetual : Everlasting
Perpetuate : Make perpetual; make something last for a long time; preserve from extinction; n. perpetuity
Perquisite(perk) : Any gain above stipulated salary; ex. perquisites such as free meals and a car
Persevere : Continue steadily in spite of difficulties
Persist : Continue in existence; last; continue in a course of action in spite of opposition; ex. persist in/with something; adj. persistent
Personable : Attractive (in personality or appearance)
Personify : Represent (an inanimate object) as a person; be the embodiment or perfect example of; ex. she is evil/patience personified; n. personification
Perspicacious : (of someone) having insight; penetrating; astute
Perspicuity : Clearness of expression; freedom from ambiguity
Perspicuous : (of something) plainly expressed; easy to understand; ex. perspicuous comments
Pert : (esp. of a girl or young woman) impertinent; forward; trim; jaunty; ex. pert young miss/hat
Pertinacious : Holding tenaciously to an action; stubborn; persistent
Pertinent : Suitable; to the point; relevant
Perturb : Disturb greatly
Peruse : Read through with care; n. perusal
Perverse : Purposely continuing to do something wrong; stubbornly wrongheaded; perverted; directed away from what is right; wicked and unacceptable; ex. perverse satisfaction; ex. hannibal lecter in a perverse mood; n. perversity
Perversion : Corruption; turning from right to wrong
Pervert : Corrupt; turn from right to wrong; misuse; ex. perverted sexual desire/scientific knowledge; n: person whose sexual behavior is not natural
Pessimism : Belief that life is basically bad or evil; gloominess; tendency to take the gloomiest possible view of a situation; adj. pessimistic
Pestilential(pestilent) : Causing plague; tending to cause death; baneful; n. pestilence: fatal epidemic disease (esp. bubonic plague)
Pestle : Tool for mashing or grinding substances in a hard bowl or mortar
Petrify : Turn to stone; cause to become stonelike; stun or paralyze
Petty : Trivial; unimportant; very small; small-minded; petty-minded
Petulant : Touchy; peevish; ill-tempered
Phalanx : Formation of infantry carrying overlapping shields and long spears; group of men packed together (for attack or defense)
Pharisaical : Pertaining to the pharisees, who paid scrupulous attention to tradition; self-righteous; hypocritical
Pharisee : Pharisee: member of an ancient jewish group that emphasized strict observance of the mosaic law (considering themselves very holy); hypocritical self-righteous person
Phenomena : Observable facts; subjects of scientific investigation; sg. phenomenon: observable fact; very unusual person, thing, or event; marvel; wonder; cf. phenomenons; adj. phenomenal: very unusual; extraordinary; of a phenomenon; ex. phenomenal strength
Philanderer : Faithless lover; flirt
Philanthropist : Lover of mankind; doer of good; n. philanthropy
Philatelist : Stamp-collector; n. philately: stamp collecting
Philistine : Narrow-minded person, uncultured and exclusively interested in material gain; uncultured person who is indifferent to artistic and cultural values; member of an ancient people in palestine; op. aesthete
Philology : Study of language or words
Phlegmatic : Calm and unexcitable; not easily disturbed; cf. phlegm: sticky mucus produced in the respiratory tract
Phobia : Morbid fear
Phoenix : Symbol of immortality or rebirth; ex. phoenix rising from its ashes
Phylum : Major classification, second to kingdom, of plants and animals; category ranking below a kingdom and above a class; division
Physiognomy : Face (as showing the character and the mind); art of judging human character from facial features
Physiological : Pertaining to the science of the function of living organisms; n. physiology
Piebald : Of different colors; mottled; spotted in different colors (esp. in black and white); ex. piebald horse; cf. pie+bald
Piecemeal : One part at a time; gradually; in stages; ex. read a novel piecemeal
Pied : Piebald; variegated(many-colored); multicolored
Piety : Devoutness; reverence for god; adj. pious
Pigment : Coloring matter (usually powder to be mixed with water or oil)
Pilfer : Steal things of small value; filch; snitch
Pillage : Plunder
Pillory : Punish by placing in a wooden frame or pillory; subject or expose to criticism and ridicule; n.
Pinch : Squeeze between the thumb and a finger, or other edges; ex. i had to pinch myself to make sure i wasn't dreaming. n: amount that can be held between the thumb and a finger
Pine : Long for; yearn; languish from longing or grief; decline
Pinion : Restrain or immobilize by binding the wings or legs; n: bird's wing
Pinnace : Small boat
Pinnacle : Peak; highest point; acme; ex. pinnacle of fame
Pious : Devout; religious; n. piety
Piquant : Pleasantly tart-tasting; spicy; pleasantly stimulating; ex. piquant situation when my old enemy asked for my help
Pique : Irritation; resentment from wounded pride (eg. loss in a contest); v: provoke; arouse; annoy; cause to feel resentment; ex. pique her curiosity
Piscatorial : Pertaining to fishing; cf. pisces
Pitfall : Hidden danger; concealed trap
Pith : Core or marrow; spongelike substance in the center of stems; essence; substance
Pithy : Concise and meaningful; substantial; meaty
Pivotal : Of a pivot; central; critical; crucial
Placate : Pacify; bring peace to; conciliate; appease
Placebo : Harmless substance prescribed as a dummy pill
Placid : Peaceful; calm; ex. placid child/lake
Plagiarize : Steal another's ideas or writings and pass them off as one's own; ex. ideas plagiarized from my article; n. plagiarism; cf. kidnap
Plaintive : Expressing sorrow; mournful; ex. plaintive song
Plait : Braid; interwine; interweave strands or lengths of; make by weaving strands together; ex. plaited hair; n: braided length as of hair o fabric; cf. pigtail, ponytail
Plane : Carpenter's tool for smoothing and leveling wood; v. cf. flat
Plaster : Paste that hardens to a smooth solid and is used for coating walls; v.
Plasticity : Ability to be molded; adj. plastic: capable of being shaped or molded; ex. plastic material such as clay
Platitude : Trite remark; commonplace statement; adj. platitudinous
Platonic : Purely spiritual; theoretical; without sensual desire
Plaudit : Praise; enthusiastic approval; round(succession or series) of applause; adj. plauditory; cf. applaud
Plausible : Conceivably true; having a show of truth but open to doubt; specious
Plebeian : Common; vulgar; pertaining to the common people; n: common people in ancient rome; cf. patrician
Plebiscite : Direct vote by the entire electorate (on an important issue)
Plenary : (of power) complete; full; fully attended by all qualified members; ex. plenary power
Plenitude : Abundance; plenty; great amount; completeness; fullness; cf. plenary, plenty
Plethora : Excess; overabundance; ex. a plethora of excuses
Pliable : Flexible; easily influenced; yielding; adaptable
Pliant : Flexible; easily influenced
Plight : Difficult condition; condition or state (esp. a bad state or condition); predicament
Ploy : Strategem to gain an advantage; tactic; ex. management ploy
Pluck : Courage; v: pull off or out; pull out the hair or feathers of; adj. plucky: courageous; brave
Plumage : Feathers of a bird;
Plumb : Exactly vertical; n: weight on the end of a line; v: examine very carefully or critically in order to understand; measure depth (by sounding); ex. plumb the depth of
Plumber : One who installs and repairs pipes and plumbing(pipes)
Plume : Feather, esp. large or showy one; something that rises into the air (like the shape of a feather); ex. plume of smoke: æ»šå‡  å¤‡æŠš
Plummet : Fall sharply; fall straight down; ex. stock prices plummeted.
Plump : Pleasantly fat; nicely rounded
Plutocracy : Society ruled by the wealthy
Podiatrist : Doctor who treats ailments of the feet; chiropodist; n. podiatrics
Podium : Pedestal; raised platform
Poignancy : Quality of being deeply moving; keenness of emotion; adj. poignant: touching; deeply moving; (of sorrow, grief, etc.) painful; keenly distressing to the mind; ex. poignant memory/anxiety; cf. prick
Poise : Good judgment with composure; balance; v: place in a carefully balanced position
Polar : Of a pole; characterized by opposite extremes; ex. polar opposites
Polarity : State of having two opposite qualities
Polarize : Split into opposite extremes or camps
Polemic : Attack or defense of an opinion; controversy or refutation; argument in support of point of view; n. polemics: art of debate or controversy
Polemical(polemic) : Aggressive in verbal attack; disputatious (rather than simply expressing opinions)
Politic : Prudent; judicious; well judged; expedient; well devised
Polity : (particular form of) political organization; form of government of nation or state; ex. student polity
Polygamist : One who has more than one spouse at a time; cf. bigamy; cf. polyandry
Polyglot : Speaking several languages; multilingual; ex. polyglot person/society; n.
Pomposity : Self-important behavior; acting like a stuffed shirt(pompous person); adj. pompous: self-important
Ponderous : Having great weight; weighty; unwieldy; lacking lightness; dull; ex. ponderous body/style of writing
Pontifical : Pertaining to a bishop or pope; pompous or pretentious; cf. pontiff: pope; bishop
Porous : Full of pores; like a sieve
Porridge : Soft food made by boiling oatmeal
Portend : Foretell; presage; be a sign or warning of; n. portent: sign; omen; forewarning
Portly : Stout; corpulent
Pose : Assume a particular posture; put forward; present; affect a particular attitude (to impress others); ex. pose a threat; n.
Poseur : Person who pretends to be sophisticated, elegant, etc., to impress others; person who poses; cf. pose
Posterity : Descendants; future generations; ex. go down to posterity; cf. posterior, anterior
Posthumous : After death (as of child born after father's death or book published after author's death); coming or occurring after one's death; ex. posthumous fame/novel
Postmortem : Autopsy; adj: occurring after death; of a postmortem
Postulate : Self-evident truth; something assumed without proof; v: assume the truth of (as a basis of an argument)
Posture : Assume an affected pose; act artificially; n: pose; attitude
Potable : Suitable for drinking; drinkable
Potent : Powerful; convincing; persuasive; greatly influential
Potentate : Monarch; sovereign
Potential : Expressing possibility; latent; n: capacity for growth
Potion : Dose (of liquids); liquid dose
Potpourri : Heterogeneous mixture; medley; mixture of dried flower petals a pot (to give a pleasant smell to a room)
Poultice : Soothing application applied to sore and inflamed portions of the body
Pr\'ecis : Abstract; concise summing up of main points; concise summary of a text
Practicable : Feasible
Practical : Based on experience; of or acquired through practice (rather than theory); useful; ex. practical man
Pragmatic : Practical (as opposed to idealistic); concerned with practical worth or impact of something; ex. pragmatic test of the skill
Prance : Move about in a spirited manner (proudly and confidently)
Prank : Mischievous trick
Prate : Talk idly; speak foolishly; boast idly
Prattle : Talk idly; babble; n. cf. prate
Preamble : Introductory statement
Precarious : Unsafe; lacking in stability; uncertain; risky; ex. precarious living
Precedent : Preceding (in time, rank, etc.)
Precept : Practical rule guiding conduct; ex. mother's precept
Precinct : Division of a city for election or police purposes; precincts: space that surrounds a building; ex. precincts of the college
Precipice : Cliff; dangerous position; ex. on the edge of the precipice
Precipitant : Something that causes a substance in a chemical solution to separate out in solid form; op. solvent
Precipitate : Hurl downward; throw headlong; hasten; cause to happen sooner; condense and fall as rain or snow; cause (a solid substance) to be separated from a solution; adj. hasty; rash; premature; sudden
Precipitous : Steep; overhasty; precipitate
Precise : Exact
Preclude : Make impossible; prevent; exclude; eliminate
Precocious : Advanced in development; n. precocity
Precursor : Forerunner; predecessor
Predator : Predatory animal or bird; predatory person; creature that seizes and devours another animal; person who robs or exploits others; adj. predatory: living by preying on other organisms; plundering; n. predation
Predecessor : Former occupant of a post
Predetermine : Determine in advance; predestine; settle or decide beforehand; influence markedly
Predicament : Difficult situation; tricky or dangerous situation; dilemma
Predilection : Preference; partiality
Predispose : Give an inclination toward (in advance); make susceptible to; ex. predispose people to certain cancer; n. predisposition
Preeminent : Outstanding; superior
Preen : Make oneself tidy in appearance; feel self-satisfaction or pride; (of a bird) smooth or clean (feathers) with the beak; ex. preen oneself on; cf. prune
Prefatory : Introductory; of a preface
Prefigure : Be a sign of; foreshadow
Prehensile : Capable of grasping or holding (esp. by wrapping around); ex. prehensile tails
Prelate : Church dignitary; priest of high position in the church (esp. bishop)
Prelude : Introduction; introductory performance or event; forerunner
Premeditate : Plan in advance; ex. premeditated murder
Premise : Assumption; postulate; proposition upon which an argument is based
Premonition : Forewarning; presentiment; foreboding
Premonitory : Serving to warn
Preponderance : Superiority of power, quantity, etc.; v. preponderate: be greater in power, weight, or importance; adj. preponderant
Prepossessing : Attractive; cf. preoccupying ?
Preposterous : Absurd; completely unreasonable; ridiculous
Prerogative : Privilege; unquestionable right; cf. ask before
Presage : Foretell; be a warning or sign of; n: presentiment; foreboding; omen
Prescience : Ability to foretell the future; knowledge of actions before they occur; adj. prescient
Presentiment : Premonition; foreboding; feeling something will happen; anticipatory fear
Prestige : Respect or admiration; impression produced by achievements or reputation; adj: causing admiration; adj. prestigious: having prestige
Presume : Take for granted; assume; act overconfidently; take liberties; presume on/upon: take unfair advantage of (someone's kindness or connection); n. presumption
Presumptuous : Going beyond what is right; excessively forward; arrogant; taking liberties
Pretend : Feign; pretend to: claim to possess; make pretensions to; ex. i don't pretend to much expertise; n. pretense
Pretension : Pretentiousness; claim (without foundation); ex. i make no pretensions to skill as an artist.
Preternatural : Beyond what is normal in nature; supernatural; ex. preternatural strength/forces
Pretext : Excuse
Prevail : Be widespread; triumph over; gain victory; prevail on: persuade; induce; ex. justice has prevailed; ex. prevail on someone to do something
Prevalent : Widespread; generally accepted
Prevaricate : Lie; hide the truth (by equivocating)
Prey : Target of a hunt; victim; v: hunt and eat as prey; victimize; ex. cats prey on mice.
Prim : Proper to the point of affectation; very precise and formal; exceedingly proper
Primal : First in rank or importance; being first in time; original; ex. man's primal innocence
Primary : First in rank or importance; principal; earliest in time; ex. primary stages; n. cf. first
Primate : Group of mammals including humans
Prime : Period of ideal or peak condition; earliest or beginning stage; ex. in the prime of life; ex. prime of the year(spring); adj: first in importance or rank; first; v: make ready; prepare
Primogeniture : Seniority by birth; state of being the first-born child; right of the eldest child (to inherit the entire property of one or both parents)
Primordial : Existing at the beginning (of time); rudimentary
Primp : Groom oneself with care; adorn oneself
Pristine : Unspoiled; remaining in a pure state; characteristic of earlier times; primitive; ex. an old book in pristine condition
Privation : Lack of the basic necessities or comforts of life; hardship; want; cf. deprive
Privy : Secret; hidden; not public; made a participant in something secret; ex. privy chamber government; ex. be privy to a discussion; cf. private
Prize : Pry; move with a lever; value highly; esteem; ex. his most prized possession; n: something captured during war-time (esp. an enemy ship)
Probe : Explore with a probe or tools; investigate; n: slender instrument used to explore a wound or body cavity; device designed to investigate an unknown region; thorough investigation; ex. space probe
Probity : Uprightness; honesty; incorruptibility
Problematic : Causing a problem; open to doubt; doubtful; unsettled; questionable; ex. whether the arena will ever be completed is problematic.
Proclivity : Inclination; natural tendency (esp. towards something bad)
Procrastinate : Postpone; delay or put off
Procurement : Obtaining; v. procure: obtain by effort; obtain (a prostitute) for another
Prod : Poke (with a pointed object); stir up; urge; goad to action; n: pointed object used to prod; prodding
Prodigal : Wasteful; reckless with money; profuse; ex. a mind prodigal of ideas; n. prodigality
Prodigious : Enormous; marvelous; extraordinary; ex. prodigious amount/memory
Prodigy : Highly gifted child; person with exceptional talents; marvel; wonder
Profane : Violate; desecrate (something holy); treat unworthily; be profane for; adj: secular; nonreligious; irreverent for holy things
Profligate : Wasteful (of money); dissipated; wildly immoral; dissolute; n: profligate person; n. profligacy
Profound : Deep; not superficial; complete; ex. profound thinker/remark/silence/deafness; n. profundity
Profusion : Great amount; plenty; overabundance; excess; lavish expenditure; ex. profusion of choices; adj. profuse: plentiful; copious; giving or given abundantly; extravagant
Progenitor : Ancestor
Progeny : Children; offspring; descendants
Prognosis : Forecasted course of a disease; prediction; cf. prognostic
Prognosticate : Predict (according to present indications)
Prohibitive : So high as to prohibit purchase or use; tending to prevent the purchase or use of something; prohibiting; inclined to prevent or forbid; ex. prohibitive tax
Projectile : Missile; fired or thrown object (such as stone or bullet)
Proletarian : Member of the working class; blue collar guy; n. proletariat: working class (who have to work for wages)
Proliferate : Grow rapidly (in numbers); spread; multiply; n. proliferation
Prolific : Producing offspring or fruit in abundance; fertile; fecund; abundantly fruitful; producing abundant works; ex. prolific writer
Prolixity : Tedious wordiness; verbosity; adj. prolix: wordy; verbose; diffuse
Prolong : Lengthen; extend; draw out
Prominent : Protruding(sticking out); conspicuous; notable; eminent
Promiscuous : Mixed indiscriminately; indiscriminate; not choosing carefully; indiscriminate in the choice of sexual partners; irregular, particularly sexually; ex. promiscuous life/girl; n. promiscuity
Promontory : Headland
Promote : Advance in rank; advance; help to flourish; advocate; help actively in forming; publicize or popularize; ex. milk promotes health; ex. promote a match/bill; ex. promote a new product
Prompt : Cause; urge; provoke; provide a cue (for an actor); adj: done without delay; done at the right time; punctual; on time; n: reminder or cue
Promulgate : Announce; proclaim a doctrine or law; make known by official publication
Prone : Inclined to; likely to (suffer); prostrate; lying with the front downward; ex. prone to disease/make mistakes; ex. accident-prone
Prong : Pointed projecting part
Pronounced : Distinct; very noticeable; ex. pronounced limp
Prop : Support placed under or against something; v.
Propagate : Increase in number by producing young; multiply; spread; ex. most plants propagate by seed; ex. newspaper propagating their ideas
Propellant(propellent) : Substance which propels or drives forward (such as an explosive charge or a rocket fuel)
Propensity : Natural inclination
Prophetic : Of a prophet or prophecy; having to do with predicting the future; n. prophecy; v. prophesy; n. prophet
Prophylactic : Used to prevent disease; n: something prophylactic; condom; n. prophylaxis: prevention of disease
Propinquity : Nearness (in space or relationship); proximity; kinship
Propitiate : Appease; conciliate; make peaceful; adj. propitiatory
Propitious : Favorable; auspicious; advantageous; fortunate; ex. propitious day/sign
Proponent : Supporter; backer; opposite of opponent
Propound : Put forth for consideration or analysis; set forth; ex. propound a problem/theory
Propriety : Fitness; quality of being proper; correct conduct; conformity to prevailing customs and usages; cf. proprietor, proprietary
Prosaic : Lacking in imagination; dull and unimaginative; matter-of- fact(concerned with facts, not imagination or feelings); factual; cf. prose
Proscenium : Part of stage in front of curtain; front arch of a stage
Proscribe : Prohibit; ostracize; banish; outlaw
Proselytize : (induce someone to) convert to a religion or belief; n. proselyte: new convert to a doctrine or religion
Prosody : Art of versification; study of the metrical structure of verse
Prosper : Become successful (esp. financially); thrive; grow well; ex. children prospering under his care
Prosperity : Good fortune and financial success; physical well-being
Prosperous : Successful; rich; affluent; well-to-do; well-off
Prostrate : Stretch out full on ground; make prostrate; enervate; ex. prostrating illness; adj: lying face down; having lost all strength
Prot\'eg\'e : Person receiving protection and support from a patron
Protagonist : Leader or noticeable supporter of an idea; chief character in a play or story
Protean : Able to take on many forms; versatile; cf. proteus: sea god to change his shape at will
Protocol : Diplomatic etiquette; ceremony and etiquette observed by diplomats; first copy of a treaty before its ratification; ex. protocol demands that the queen meet him at the airport.
Prototype : Original work used as a model by others
Protract : Prolong; lengthen in time; draw out
Protrude : Stick out; jut; project; ex. protruding teeth
Protuberance : Protrusion; swelling; bulge
Provenance : Place of origin; origin or source of something; ex. gunpowder is of chinese provenance; cf. come
Provender : Dry food for livestock; fodder
Proverb : Adage; someone or something well known for notoriety; adj. proverbial: of a proverb; widely known; adv. proverbially
Providence : Quality of being provident; divine care; god's care; providence: god; ex. it seemed like providence that the doctor happened to be there; adj. providential: of divine providence; fortunate
Provident : Providing for future needs; displaying foresight; thrifty; preparing for emergencies; op. improvident
Provision : Act of providing; something provided; preparatory measure; provisions: necessary supplies (esp. food); stipulation; condition in an agreement; ex. according to the provisions of the agreement
Provisional : Tentative; temporary
Proviso : Stipulation; condition in an agreement; provision
Provocative : Arousing anger or sexual interest; annoying; ex. provocative in tight jeans; v. provoke: incite to anger; cause (an unpleasant action or feeling); n. provocation
Prowess : Extraordinary ability; military bravery; ex. prowess in battle
Proximity : Nearness; adj. proximate
Proxy : Authorized agent; authority to act for another
Prude : Excessively modest or proper person (who is easily shocked by improper things, esp. of a sexual nature); n. prudery; adj. prudish: excessively concerned with propriety
Prudent : Cautious; careful; prudential
Prune : Cut away; trim
Prurient : Having or causing lustful desires and thoughts; arousing immoderate sexual desire
Pry : Inquire impertinently (someone else's private affairs); use leverage to raise or open something; prize; n. pries: tool for prying
Pseudonym : Pen name; fictitious name assumed by an author; adj. pseudonymous
Psyche : Soul; mind
Psychiatrist : Doctor who treats mental diseases
Psychic : Of psyche; mental; of or possessing extraordinary mental powers
Psychopathic : Pertaining to mental dearrangement; n. psychopath: person with an antisocial personality disorder
Psychosis : Mental disorder; adj. n. psychotic
Psychosomatic : Of the influence of the mind on the body (esp. with respect to disease)
Pterodactyl : Extinct flying reptile; cf. wing+finger
Pucker : Gather into wrinkles or folds; n: wrinkle or fold
Pudding : Hot sweet dish
Puerile : Childish; immature; cf. puer: boy
Pugilist : Boxer; cf. pugilism: boxing
Puissant : Powerful; strong; potent; n. puissance: power
Pulchritude : Beauty; comeliness; adj. pulchritudinous
Pulmonary : Pertaining to the lungs
Pulpit : Raised platform used in preaching (in a church)
Pulsate : Throb; beat regularly; vibrate regularly
Pulse : Rhythmical throbbing of arteries; brief sudden change in a normally constant quantity; v: pulsate
Pulverize : Crush or grind into very small particles
Pummel : Pommel; beat or pound with fists
Punctilious : Minutely attentive (perhaps too much so) to fine points; stressing niceties of conduct or form; n. punctilio, punctiliousness: careful attention payed to every small exact detail
Pundit : Authority on a subject; expert; learned person
Pungent : Stinging; acrid; sharp in taste or smell; (of speech or writing) caustic; n. pungency
Punitive : Punishing; ex. punitive measures
Puny : Tiny; weak; insignificant
Purchase : Secure grasp or hold; firm grasp or footing
Purgatory : Place of spiritual expiation; temporary state or place in which the souls must expiate their sins
Purge : Remove or get rid of something or someone unwanted; eliminate; free from blame or guilt; cleanse or purify (esp. of sin, guilt, or defilement); n.
Purport : Intention; purpose; meaning; v: claim; profess; ex. order which purports to be signed by the general
Purported : Alleged; claimed; reputed or rumored; ex. purported satanists
Purse : Pucker; contract (lips) into wrinkles; n: wallet
Purveyor : Furnisher of foodstuffs; caterer; v. purvey: supply (eg. food); furnish; cf. provide
Pushy : Disagreeably aggressive
Pusillanimous : Cowardly; lacking courage; fainthearted
Putative : Supposed; reputed; generally regarded as such; ex. putative father of the child
Putrefy : Make or become putrid; n. putrefaction
Putrescent : Becoming putrid; putrefying
Putrid : Decayed and foul-smelling; foul; rotten; decayed; n. putridity
Puzzle : Baffle or confuse by a difficult problem; ponder over a problem in an effort to solve; clarify or solve by reasoning; ex. puzzle out the answer; n.
Pyromaniac : Person with an insane desire to set things on fire
Quack : Charlatan; impostor
Quadruped : Four-footed animal; adj. cf. biped
Quaff : Drink with zest; drink with relish(zest; hearty enjoyment); cf. sip
Quagmire : Bog; marsh; soft, wet, boggy land; predicament; complex or dangerous situation from which it is difficult to free oneself
Quail : Cower; shrink back in fear; lose heart
Quaint : Odd in an old-fashioned way; odd; old-fashioned; picturesque
Qualified : Limited; restricted; v. qualify: limit the meaning of; modify
Qualify : Reach a necessary standard; limit the meaning of something stated
Qualms : Uneasy feelings; misgivings; uneasy fears especially about matters of conscience; ex. i have no qualms about giving this assignment to helen.
Quandary : Dilemma; state of uncertainty; ex. she is in a quandary about whether to go.
Quarantine : Isolation of a person, place, or ship to prevent spread of infection; v: isolate in quarantine
Quarry : Dig into (to get stone); n: mine;
Quash : Crush; suppress; squash; subdue; annul; ex. quash a rebellion/the decision of the low court
Quay : Dock; wharf; pier; landing place (for boats)
Queasy : Experiencing nausea; nauseated; easily nauseated; squeamish; ex. feel a little queasy
Queer : Strange; eccentric; deviating from the normal
Quell : Suppress; put an end to; put down forcibly; extinguish; quiet; ex. ``army quells rebellion'' in newspaper; cf. kill
Quench : Assuage or satisfy (thrust); slake; douse or extinguish; put out; suppress
Querulous : Given to complaining; complaining; fretful; whining
Query : Inquiry; question; v.
Queue : Line (of waiting people or vehicles)
Quibble : Minor objection or complaint; v: raise minor objections; carp; cavil
Quicksilver : Mercury
Quiescent : Dormant; temporarily inactive; at rest; n. quiescence
Quietude : Tranquillity; calmness
Quintessence : Purest and highest embodiment; perfect example; apotheosis; most essential element; ex. quintessence of wit; adj. quintessential; cf. fifth essence
Quip : Taunt; clever sarcastic remark; v.
Quirk : Sudden sharp turn or twist; startling twist; caprice; idiosyncrasy; peculiarity of behavior; ex. by a quirk of fate
Quisling : Traitor who aids invaders; cf. vidkun quisling
Quiver : Tremble; shake; n.
Quixotic : Idealistic but impractical; cf. don quixote
Quizzical : Curious; suggesting puzzlement (without saying); questioning; teasing; mocking; bantering; ex. quizzical glance
Quorum : Minimal number of members necessary to conduct a meeting
Quotidian : Daily; commonplace; customary; ex. quotidian routine
Rabble : Mob; noisy crowd
Rabid : Of or suffering rabies; like a fanatic; extremely zealous; furious; cf. rabies: hydrophobia
Rabies : Disease passed on by the bite of an infected animal (causing madness and death)
Raconteur : Story-teller; one who tells stories with wit and skill
Raffle : Lottery; v: award as a prize in a raffle; ex. raffle off a new car
Rag : Scrap of cloth; adj. ragged: old and torn; seeming unfinished and imperfect; ex. ragged debut/performance
Ragamuffin : Dirty child in torn clothes; person wearing tattered clothes
Rail : Complain bitterly; scold; rant; ex. the weaker railing against injustices
Raiment : Clothing; garments; ex. i have no raiment fit to wear.
Rake : Immoral or dissolute person
Rally : Come or bring together; call up or summon (forces, vital powers, etc.); revive or recuperate (after illness or difficulty); n: act of rallying; mass gathering
Ram : Male sheep; v. strike or drive against with a heavy impact
Ramble : Wander aimlessly (physically or mentally); digress
Ramification : Branching out; subdivision; one branch of a system; one of the results following from an action or decision; ex. ramifications of a business/the decision
Ramify : Branch out; divide into branches or subdivisions
Ramp : Slope; inclined plane or roadway (connecting two levels)
Rampant : Growing or spreading uncontrollably; growing in profusion; unrestrained; ex. rampant lawlessness/weed
Rampart : Defensive mound of earth
Ramshackle : (of a building or vehicle) poorly constructed; rickety; falling apart
Rancid : Having the odor of stale or decomposing fat; rank
Rancor : Long-lasting hatred; bitterness; ex. negotiation without rancor; adj. rancorous
Random : Without definite purpose, plan, or aim; haphazard; ex. random shots; ex. chosen at random
Rank : Offensive in odor or flavor
Rankle : Irritate; fester; annoy
Ransack : Search thoroughly; pillage (going through a place); ex. enemy soldiers ransacked the town.
Rant : Speak violently or excitedly; rave; talk excitedly showing anger; scold; make a grandiloquent speech; ex. the priest ranted about the devil.
Rapacious : Voracious; ravenous; taking everything one can; excessively grasping; plundering; subsisting on live prey; ex. rapacious birds
Rapport : Close relationship; emotional closeness; harmony
Rapt : Engrossed; absorbed; enchanted; ex. rapt listener
Rapture : Great joy and delight; ecstasy; adj. rapturous
Rare : (of air) thin in density; rarefied; ex. rare air of the mountains
Rarefied : Made less dense (of a gas); v. rarefy: make less dense; n. rarefaction
Rasp : (of a sound) grate on (eg. nerves); make a harsh noise; have an unpleasant effect; rub with something rough; ex. the cat's tongue rasped my hand.
Raspy : Making a harsh noise; grating; harsh
Ratify : Approve formally; confirm; verify
Ratiocination : Reasoning; act of drawing conclusions from premises; v. ratiocinate: reason logically
Ration : Fixed portion; v: distribute as rations
Rational : (of a person) having reason; (of ideas) based on reason; logical
Rationale : Fundamental reason or principle (on which a system or principle is based); fundamental reason or justification; grounds for an action
Rationalize : Make rational; devise false reasons for (one's behavior); offer an excuse; give a plausible reason for an action in place of a true, less admirable ones; n. rationalization
Raucous : (of voice) harsh and unpleasant; (of people) disorderly and boisterous; ex. raucous shouts
Ravage : Devastate; plunder; despoil; ex. crops ravaged by storms
Rave : Overwhelmingly favorable review; v: talk wildly as if mad; ex. raving lunatic
Ravel : Fall apart into tangles; entangle; unravel or untwist
Ravenous : Extremely hungry; voracious
Ravine : Narrow valley with steep sides; gorge; cf. gully, canyon
Raze : Destroy completely; ex. raze the city to the ground
Reactionary : Strongly opposed to social or political change; opposing progress; politically ultraconservative; n. op. radical
Realm : Kingdom; field or sphere; ex. not within the realms of possibility
Reaper : One who harvests grain; ex. the grim reaper; v. reap: cut and gather (crop); harvest a crop
Rebate : Return of part of a payment; discount; v.
Rebuff : Reject bluntly; snub; beat back; ex. she rebuffed his invitation; n.
Rebuke : Scold harshly; criticize severely
Rebus : Representation of words in the form of pictures or symbols; puzzle in which pictures or letters stand for words; ex. ``r u 18'' is a rebus for ``are you 18''.
Rebuttal : Refutation; response with contrary evidence; v. rebut: refute; disprove
Recalcitrant : Disobedient or resisting authority even after being punished; obstinately stubborn; determined to resist authority; unruly; ex. recalcitrant child
Recant : Disclaim or disavow; retract a previous statement; openly confess error; ex. recant one's faith/a statement
Recapitulate : Summarize
Recast : Reconstruct (a sentence, story, statue, etc.); fashion again
Receptive : Quick or willing to receive (ideas, suggestions, etc.); ex. receptive to the
Recess : Pause; temporary cessation; alcove; secret inner place; ex. parliament in recess; v. cf. recessive
Recession : Withdrawal; retreat; time of low economic activity
Recidivism : Habitual return to crime (even after being punished); n. recidivist
Recipient : Receiver
Reciprocal : Mutual; given and received in return; exchangeable; interacting; ex. reciprocal trade agreement
Reciprocate : Do or give something in return; repay in kind; give or take mutually; interchange; move
Recital : Act of reciting publicly; detailed account; performance of music or dance (by a solo performer)
Recite : Repeat aloud (something learned); describe; ex. recite his complaints; n. recitation
Reckon : Count; calculate; regard as; think; suppose
Recline : Lie down
Recluse : Hermit; loner; adj. reclusive
Reconcile : Make friendly again (after quarrel); make consistent (two ideas in opposition); correct inconsistencies; ex. reconcile one's political principles with one's religious beliefs
Recondite : Abstruse; not easily understood; profound; secret
Reconnaissance : Survey of enemy by soldiers; reconnoitering; v. reconnoiter: make a preliminary inspection of (esp. to gather military information)
Recount : Narrate or tell (a story); count over again
Recourse : Resorting to help when in trouble; ex. without recourse to
Recreant : Disloyal; cowardly; n: disloyal and cowardly person
Recrimination : Countercharges; v. recriminate
Rectify : Set right; correct; cf. rect-: right
Rectitude : Moral correctness; moral uprightness; moral virtue; correctness of judgment
Recumbent : Reclining; lying down completely or in part
Recuperate : Recover; return to health; regain; ex. recuperate losses
Recurrent : Occurring again and again
Redolent : Odorous; fragrant; suggestive (of an odor); ex. redolent of onions/mystery
Redoubtable : Formidable; causing fear
Redress : Remedy; compensation; ex. seek redress for the damage to your car; v: put right; remedy or rectify (a wrong); make amends for
Reduce : Diminish; bring to a weaker or more difficult condition; demote; lower in rank; separate into components by analysis; ex. reduced to the ranks; ex. reduce the house to rubble; n. reduction
Redundant : Superfluous; more than is necessary; verbose; excessively wordy; repetitious
Reek : Emit (an unpleasant odor or smoke); give off an unpleasant odor; give out smoke; ex. reeking chimney; n: unpleasant odor; stench
Refectory : Dining hall; room where meals are served (in a school)
Referendum : Direct vote by all the people
Refraction : Bending of a ray of light
Refractory : Unmanageable; disobedient and stubborn; ex. refractory horse
Refrain : Abstain from; resist; forbear; n: chorus
Refulgent : Effulgent; brilliant; brightly shining; gleaming; ex. refulgent moon
Refurbish : Renovate; make clean, bright, or fresh (make new) again; make bright by polishing; ex. refurbish an old theater; cf. furbish: polish
Refuse : Anything discarded or rejected as worthless; trash
Refute : Disprove; prove to be false; n. refutation
Regal : Royal; of a monarch; ex. regal manner
Regale : Entertain
Regatta : Boat or yacht race
Regeneration : Spiritual rebirth; ex. regeneration of the prisoners; v. regenerate: give or obtain new life; reform spiritually
Regent : A person who governs in place of a ruler who is ill, absent, or still a child; adj. ex. the prince regent
Regicide : Murder of a king or queen
Regime : Method of system or government
Regimen : Prescribed course of diet or exercise; prescribed diet and habits; ex. daily regimen of a dancer
Regiment : Military unit; v: subject to strict order; ex. regimented society
Rehabilitate : Restore to proper condition (health or useful life); restore the former rank of
Reimburse : Repay; pay back
Reinstate : Restore to a previous condition or position
Reiterate : Repeat
Rejoinder : Reply; retort; comeback; v. rejoin: say in reply
Rejuvenate : Make young again
Relapse : Return to a former state (esp. after improvement); n.
Relegate : Put into a lower or worse place; banish to an inferior position; delegate; assign; ex. relegate the old furniture to the children's room; ex. relegated to the second division
Relent : Become less severe; give in(surrender); adj. relentless: unyielding; continuously severe
Relevant : Having importance; pertinent; referring to the case in hand; n. relevance, relevancy
Relic : Surviving remnant (from an extinct culture); memento; keepsake; relics: corpse; ex. ancient relics; ex. relics of his travel; ex. his relics are buried at x.
Religious : Of religion; (of a person) pious; having reverence for a deity
Relinquish : Give up something (with reluctance); yield; release; ex. relinquish power/the claim to the land/his hold on my arm
Relish : Enjoy; savor; n: enjoyment; zest
Remediable : Reparable
Reminiscence : Recollection; v. reminisce: recollect the past
Reminiscent : Suggestive of something (in the past); of reminiscence
Remiss : Negligent; careless about a duty
Remission : Temporary moderation (of disease symptoms); remitting of a debt or punishment; cancelation of a debt; pardon; ex. the disease went into remission; ex. christians pray for the remission of sins.
Remit : Transmit (money) in payment; free someone from a debt or punishment
Remittance : Remitting of money; amount of money remitted
Remnant : Remainder
Remonstrate : Protest; objection; v. remonstrate: say in protest
Remorse : Deep regret for wrongdoing; guilt; self-reproach
Remunerative : (of work) compensating; rewarding; profitable; well-paid; v. remunerate: reward; pay (someone) for work or trouble
Rend : Split; tear apart; n. rent; cf. heartrending: causing deep sorrow
Render : Give; deliver; provide; represent in verbal or artistic form; depict; perform; make; translate; ex. render the song beautifully
Rendezvous : Meeting place; meeting at a set time or place; v.
Rendition : Rendering; translation; artistic interpretation of a song, etc
Renegade : Deserter; traitor; adj.
Renege : Break a promise; deny; go back on; ex. renege on the contract/paying off the debt
Renounce : Abandon; give up (by formal announcement); disown; repudiate; ex. renounce one's claim to the property/one's religion; n. renunciation
Renovate : Restore to good condition; renew
Renown : Fame; adj. renowned
Rent : Tear made by rending; rip; split
Reparable : Capable of being repaired
Reparation : Compensation (for loss or wrong); amends; ex. make reparation for the damage; cf. repair
Repartee : Quick clever reply
Repast : Meal; feast; banquet
Repeal : Revoke; annul
Repel : Drive away; disgust; ex. repel the attack/moisture; ex. repelled by the dirty room; cf. repulsion
Repellent : Driving away; disgusting; offensive; repulsive; unattractive; n.
Repercussion : Rebound; reaction; reverberation; ex. serious repercussion
Repertoire : List of works of music, drama, etc., a performer is prepared to present; cf. repertory
Repine : Fret; complain; be annoyed; ex. repine over the undone work
Replenish : Fill up again
Replete : Fully filled; filled to the brim or to the point of being stuffed; abundantly supplied; ex. report replete with errors
Replica : Copy
Replicate : Reproduce; duplicate
Repose : Resting; state of being at rest; calmness; v: lie at rest; relax; put or place; ex. repose our hopes in a single man
Repository : Storehouse
Reprehensible : Deserving blame; blameworthy; v. reprehend: blame
Representational : (of a style of art) showing things as they actually appear in real life
Repress : Hold back (the natural expression of); restrain; crush; oppress; ex. repressed child; ex. repress a laugh/rebellion
Reprieve : Postponement or cancelation of a punishment; temporary stay; v: postpone or cancel the punishment of
Reprimand : Reprove severely; rebuke; n.
Reprisal : Retaliation
Reprise : Musical repetition; repeating of a piece of music; repeat performance; recurrent action; ex. reprise in the finale; ex. constant reprises
Reproach : Blame (not angrily but sadly); express disapproval or disappointment; n. adj. reproachful
Reprobate : Morally disapproved person; person hardened in sin, devoid of a sense of decency; cf. disapproved by god ?
Reprobation : Severe disapproval; cf. approbation
Reprove : Censure; rebuke; n. reproof
Repudiate : Disown; disavow; deny
Repugnance : Disgust; strong dislike; loathing; adj. repugnant: arousing disgust; repulsive
Repulse : Reject with rudeness or coldness (an offer or friendship); drive back (an enemy attack); cf. repulse $\neq$ cause repulsion
Repulsion : Distaste; disgust; act of driving back; adj. repulsive: causing disgust; tending to drive away; v. repel (not `repulse')
Reputable : Respectable; having a good reputation
Reputed : Supposed; ex. reputed father of the child; v. repute: consider; n. repute: reputation; esteem
Requiem : Mass for the dead; dirge
Requisite : Necessary requirement; something required; adj: required; necessary
Requisition : Formal demand or request; ex. requisition for more computing equipment; v.
Requite : Make return for; repay; reciprocate; revenge; n. requittal
Rescind : Repeal; annul; cancel (a law, decision, or agreement)
Resentment : Indignation; bitterness; displeasure; v. resent: feel anger about
Reserve : Self-control; self-restraint; formal but distant manner; reticence; ex. without reserve: freely and openly; adj. reserved: shy and uncommunicative
Residual : Remaining; left over; of a residue; n: residue
Residue : Remainder; balance
Resign : Give up (a position, right, or claim); submit (oneself) passively
Resignation : Patiently submissiveness; statement that one is quitting a job; adj. resigned: acquiescent
Resilient : Elastic; having the power of springing back; able to recover quickly (as from
Resolution : Determination; resoluteness; adj. resolute: firm or determined in purpose
Resolve : Decide; settle; solve; separate; make a determined decision; n. resolution
Resonant : (of a sound) echoing; resounding(sounding loudly); deep and full in sound; producing resonance; ex. resonant voice; n. resonance
Resort : Turn to for help; ex. resort to violence; n.
Resound : (of a place) be filled with sound; (of a sound) sound loudly; sound back; echo; ex. hall resounded with laughter
Resourceful : Clever and imaginative (in dealing with difficult situations); n. resource, resourcefulness
Respiration : Breathing; exhalation; adj. respiratory
Respite : Time for rest; interval of relief; delay in punishment; reprieve
Resplendent : Brilliant; splendid in appearance; dazzling; glorious
Responsiveness : State of reacting readily to appeals, orders, etc.; adj. responsive: readily reacting; ex. responsive to treatment
Restitution : Returning something (lost or stolen) to the rightful owner; reparation; indemnification; compensation for loss, damage, or injury
Restive : Impatiently restless (induced by external coercion or restriction); restlessly impatient; obstinately resisting control; ex. restive horses because of wolves; cf. not a general synonym for `restless'
Restraint : Moderation or self-control; controlling force; restriction
Resumption : Taking up again; recommencement; v. resume: begin or take up again; take or occupy again; ex. kindly resume your seats.
Resurge : Rise again; flow to and fro; n. resurgence; adj. resurgent: (of ideas or beliefs) experiencing revival; surging again
Resurrect : Revive
Resuscitate : Revive; bring back to life or consciousness; ex. resuscitate the drowned child
Retain : Keep; maintain possession of; employ (esp. a lawyer or advisor); n. retainer: servant; fee paid to retain an advisor
Retaliate : Repay in kind (usually for bad treatment); v. retaliate
Retard : Delay (in development); adj. retarded: (as of a child) slower in development
Retentive : Holding; able to retain things (esp. facts in the mind); having a good memory
Retinue : Following; attendants
Retiring : Shy and reserved (of a person); modest; ex. her retiring personality
Retort : Quick sharp reply; v.
Retract : Withdraw; take back; draw back; ex. retract a statement/an offer/claws; n. retraction; cf. retractile
Retrench : Cut down; cut down expenses; economize
Retribution : Deserved punishment for wrongdoing; punishment for offenses; compensation; vengeance; cf. pay back
Retrieve : Recover; put right; find and bring in; regain; ex. retrieve the situation
Retroactive : Taking effect before its enactment (as a law) or imposition (as a tax); (of a law) having effect on the past as well as the future
Retrograde : Go backwards; recede; degenerate; deteriorate; adj.
Retrospective : Looking back on the past; n. retrospection; v. retrospect
Revelry : Boisterous merrymaking; v. revel: engage boisterous festivities; enjoy greatly; n: boisterous festivity or celebration
Reverberate : Echo repeatedly; resound; ex. the thunder reverberated across the valley.
Reverend : Deserving reverence; n: priest
Reverent : Respectful; worshipful; v. revere: regard with reverence; n. reverence: profound respect
Reverie : Daydream; abstracted musing
Revert : Relapse; backslide; turn back to; return to the former owner; n. reversion
Revile : Attack with abusive language; vilify(slander)
Revoke : Cancel; retract; cf. irrevocable
Revulsion : Sudden strong feeling of disgust; sudden violent change of feeling; negative reaction; ex. revulsion from the scenes of torture
Rhapsodize : Speak or write in an exaggeratedly enthusiastic manner; ex. rhapsodize over the beauty of the scenery
Rhapsody : Excessively enthusiastic expression of feeling; musical composition of irregular form (as if made up as one plays it)
Rhetoric : Art of effective communication; art of using language effectively and persuasively; style of speaking or writing; grandiloquent language; ex. political rhetoric; adj. rhetorical; cf. rhetorical question: question to which no answer is expected as
Ribald : Marked by vulgar lewd humor; wanton; profane; n. ribaldry: ribald language or joke
Rickety : (of buildings) likely to break or fall apart; of rickets; cf. rickets; cf. vitamin
Riddle : Pierce with holes; permeate or spread throughout; ex. the gunman riddled the car with bullets; ex. the whole report is riddled with errors; n. large sieve (separating earth from stone)
Rider : Amendment or clause added to a legislative bill
Rife : (of something bad) widespread; abundant; current
Rift : Narrow opening in a large mass; break in a friendly relation; ex. through a rift in the clouds; op. reconcilation
Rig : Arrangement of masts and sails; v: equip (a ship) with rigging; adj. rigging: ropes that hold up a ship's sails
Righteous : Morally upright; just
Rightful : Legally correct; ex. rightful owner
Rigid : Hard and unbending; stiff and unyielding; fixed in behavior or views; strict; rigorous; ex. rigid rule
Rigor : Severity; ex. rigors of the russian winter
Rile : Irritate; vex; muddy
Rip : Tear or be torn quickly and violently; ex. the sail ripped under the force of the wind; n.
Rivet : Metal pin used for fastening metal plates together; v: fasten with a rivet; engross
Riveting : Holding one's attention; absorbing; engrossing
Rivulet : Small stream; cf. rill < rivulet < river
Robust : Strong; vigorous
Rococo : Ornate; highly decorated; n. cf. 18th century
Roil : Make liquids murky by stirring up sediment; disturb
Rolling : (of land) rising and falling in long gentle slopes; happening continuously by stages; ex. rolling devolution of power to local governments
Romp : Play or frolic boisterously; gambol; n.
Rooster : Cock; adult male chicken
Roseate : Rosy; optimistic; ex. roseate views
Roster : List (of names)
Rostrum : Raised platform for speech-making; pulpit
Rote : Repetition; memorization through repetition without understanding; ex. learn poetry by rote
Rotund : (of a person) fat and round
Rotunda : Circular building or hall covered with a dome
Rotundity : Roundness; sonorousness of speech
Rou\'e : Lecherous man
Rousing : Lively; inducing excitement; stirring; v. rouse: waken; arouse from sleep or depression; excite; stir up
Rout : Put to rout; stampede; drive out; n: complete defeat and disorderly retreat
Rubble : Fragments (esp. from a destroyed building)
Rubric : Title or heading (in red print); directions for religious ceremony; protocol
Ruddy : Reddish; (of the face) reddish and healthy-looking
Rudimentary : Elementary; not developed; crude; n. rudiment: fundamental element or principle; ex. rudiments of the language
Rue : Regret; lament; mourn; ex. he will rue the day; n. adj. rueful
Ruffian : Violent scoundrel; bully
Rumble : Make or move with a deep rolling sound (as thunder or stomach)
Ruminant : Animal that ruminates; adj.
Ruminate : Chew over and over (mentally or, like cows, physically); mull over(ponder)
Rummage : Ransack; thoroughly search
Run-down : (of a place) dilapidated; in a bad condition; (of a person) weak or exhausted
Runic : Mysterious; set down in an ancient alphabet; n. rune: one of the letters of an alphabet used by ancient germanic peoples (cut on stone or wood); magic charm
Ruse : Trick to deceive; stratagem
Rustic : Pertaining to country people; unsophisticated; simple; crude; uncouth; (of furniture) rough with the bark left on; n. rural person; rustic person
Rusticate : Banish to the country; dwell in the country
Rustle : Make slight sounds like silk moving or being rubbed together
Ruthless : Pitiless; merciless; cruel
Saboteur : One who commits sabotage; destroyer of property; n. sabotage: destruction of property (usually carried out secretly)
Saccharine : Cloying sweet; characteristic of sugar or saccharin
Sacrosanct : Invioably sacred; most sacred; inviolable
Sadistic : Inclined to cruelty; n. sadism: delight in cruelty
Saga : Scandinavian myth; any legend; long heroic narrative
Sagacious : Wise; perceptive; shrewd; having insight; n. sagacity
Sage : Person celebrated for wisdom; wise person; adj: wise
Salacious : Lascivious; lustful; ex. salacious monk
Salient : Prominent; projecting beyond a line; conspicuous; ex. salient features
Saline : Salty
Sallow : (of the skin) yellowish and unhealthy-looking; sickly in color; ex. sallow complexion due to jaundice
Salubrious : Healthful; conducive to health or well-being; socially desirable; ex. salubrious area; cf. health
Salutary : Tending to improve; beneficial; wholesome; ex. the punishment had a salutary effect on the boy; cf. health
Salvage : Rescue (goods or property) from loss; n: saving; property saved
Sanctimonious : Displaying ostentatious or hypocritical devoutness; n. sanctimony: hypocritical piety
Sanction : Approve; ratify; n: permission; penalty intended to enforce compliance
Sanctuary : Place of refuge; shelter; shrine; holy place; ex. the outlaw was granted sanctuary in the church.
Sanguinary : Bloody; with much bloodshed
Sanguine : Optimistic; cheerful; hopeful; of the color of blood; red
Sap : Diminish; weaken; undermine the foundations of (a fortification); ex. the element kryptonite sapped his strength.
Sarcasm : Cutting ironic remark; scornful remarks; stinging rebuke; adj. sarcastic
Sardonic : Scornfully mocking; disdainful; sarcastic; cynical; ex. sardonic smile
Sartorial : Pertaining to tailors or tailoring; ex. a man of great sartorial elegance; cf. sartor: tailor
Sate : Satisfy to the full; satisfy to excess; cloy
Satellite : Small body revolving around a larger one
Satire : Form of literature in which irony, sarcasm, and ridicule are employed to attack human vice and folly
Satirical : Using satire; mocking
Saturate : Soak thoroughly; imbue; impregnate; charge; fill to capacity
Saturnine : Morose; gloomy; ex. do not be misled by his saturnine countenance.
Satyr : Half-human, half-bestial being in the court of dionysus (resembling a goat), portrayed as wanton(unrestrained) and cunning; lecher; cf. faun; cf. goat: lecherous man
Saunter : Stroll(go for a leisurely walk) slowly; n.
Savant : Scholar; learned person; cf. savoir: know
Savor : Enjoy; have a distinctive flavor, smell, or quality; n: taste or smell; distinctive quality
Savory : Pleasant in taste; tasty; pleasing, attractive, or agreeable; ex. savory reputation
Scabbard : Case for a sword blade; sheath
Scad : A great quantity; ex. scads of clothes
Scaffold : Temporary platform for workers (to work at heights above the ground); bracing framework; platform for execution
Scale : Climb up; ascend; remove or come off in scales; n: flake of epidermis; ascending or descending series of musical tones
Scanty : Meager; insufficient
Scapegoat : Someone who bears the blame for others; whipping boy; cf. escape+goat
Scavenge : Hunt through discarded materials for usable items or food; search, especially for food; n. scavenger: one who scavenges; animal that feeds on refuse and carrion
Scenario : Plot outline; screenplay(script for a movie); opera libretto; outline of possible future events
Schematic : Of a schema or scheme; relating to an outline or diagram; using a system of symbols; n. schema: diagrammatic representation; outline
Scheme : Systematic plan; plot; clever dishonest plan; orderly arrangement of elements; ex. health insurance scheme; ex. a scheme to escape taxes; ex. a color scheme; ex. a story with no scheme; v: contrive a scheme
Scholarly : Full of learning; erudite; like a scholar; ex. scholarly journal
Scintilla : Trace; minute amount; shred; least bit; ex. there is not a scintilla of truth; cf. spark
Scintillate : Sparkle; flash; be animated; be full of life; ex. scintillating conversation
Scion : Detached plant shoot used in grafting; descendant
Scoff : Laugh (at); mock; ridicule; ex. scoff at their threats
Scorch : Sear; n.
Score : Number of points; written form of a musical composition; reason; group of 20; notch or incision; ex. full/vocal score; ex. don't worry on that score; v: mark with lines or notches; ex. score the paper to make it easy to fold
Scotch : Stamp out(put an end to); thwart; hinder; ex. scotch the rumor; cf. cut; cf. åŠæ‚¼é˜‘ ä¸´æžç»° ç‹¼å›º
Scourge : Lash; whip (formerly used for punishment); source of severe punishment; v: whip; afflict
Scowl : Frown angrily; n: angry frown
Scrap : Small bit or fragment; discarded waste material; fight; ex. a scrap of paper/cloth; v: break into parts for disposal; discard as worthless; fight; quarrel
Scrappy : Quarrelsome
Scraps : Leftover food
Screech : Unpleasant high sharp sound; shriek; v.
Scrimmage : Disorderly fight between two or more people
Scruple : Hesitate for ethical reasons; fret about; ex. she did not scruple to read his diary; n: uneasy feeling arising from conscience; conscience
Scrupulous : Conscientious; extremely thorough; ex. scrupulous worker
Scrutinize : Examine closely and critically; n. scrutiny
Scuffle : Struggle confusedly; move off in a confused hurry; n. cf. scuffling twins ?
Scurrilous : Abusive; obscene; indecent; ex. scurrilous remark
Scurry : Move hastily; hurry; move briskly
Scurvy : Contemptible; despicable; n: disease caused by deficiency of vitamin c
Seamy : Sordid; base; filthy; unwholesome; ex. seamy side of city life
Sear : Burn the surface of; char or burn; brand; parch; cause (a plant) to wither
Season : Enhance the flavor of by adding a spice, etc.; inure; harden; n. seasoning: something used in seasoning
Seasonable : Occurring at the proper time or season; opportune; ex. seasonable intervention in the dispute
Seasonal : Of a particular season; ex. seasonal rise in employment
Seasoned : Experienced
Secession : Withdrawal; v. secede: withdraw formally from membership
Seclusion : Isolation; solitude; v. seclude: set apart from others; isolate
Secrete : Conceal; hide away or cache; produce and release a substance into an organism; cf. secretive
Sect : Separate religious body; faction; group of people with common beliefs within a larger group
Sectarian : Of a sect; narrow-minded; parochial; n: member of a sect; narrow-minded person
Secular : Worldly; not pertaining to church matters or religion; temporal
Sedate : Composed (with no excitement); grave; v: administer a sedative to; cf. sedative
Sedentary : Requiring sitting; done while sitting; not moving from one place to another; settled; ex. sedentary job/population
Sedition : Conduct or language inciting rebellion; rebellion; resistance to authority; insubordination; adj. seditious
Seduce : Lead away from proper conduct; entice; adj. seductive
Sedulous : Diligent; assiduous; paying attention; n. sedulity
Seedy : Run-down; decrepit; disreputable; having many seeds; ex. seedy downtown hotel
Seemly : (of behavior) proper; appropriate
Seep : Pass slowly through small openings; ooze; trickle; n. seepage
Seethe : Be violently disturbed; boil; (of a liquid) move about wildly as if boiling; ex. the nation was seething with discontent.
Seine : Seine net; net for catching fish
Seismic : Pertaining to earthquakes
Self-indulgence : Excessive indulgence of one's own desire
Self-righteous : Sure of one's own righteousness; moralistic
Semblance : Outward appearance; guise; ex. we called in the troops to bring a/some semblance of order to the city.
Seminal : Related to seed or semen; germinal; creative; providing a basis for further development; influencing future developments; ex. seminal research in a new field
Seminary : School for training future ministers; secondary school, especially for young women
Senility : Old age; feeblemindedness of old age; adj. senile: resulting from old age; showing the weakness of body or mind from old age; ex. senile dementia
Sensitization : Process of being made sensitive or acutely responsive to an external agent or substance; v. sensitize: make or become sensitive
Sensual : Devoted to the pleasures of the sense; carnal; voluptuous; ex. sensual woman/curves/lips
Sensuous : Giving pleasure to the senses; pertaining to the physical senses; operating through the senses; sensuous feeling of soft velvet on the skin
Sententious : Pithy; terse; concise; aphoristic
Sentient : Capable of sensation and conscious; aware; sensitive; ex. sentient creature; n. sentience
Sentimental : Swayed by sentiment; appealing to the sentiments
Sentinel : Sentry; lookout
Septic : Of or causing sepsis; putrid; producing putrefaction; n. sepsis: poisoning of part of the body (producing pus)
Sepulcher : Tomb; v: place in a sepulcher; adj. sepulchral
Sequester : Isolate; segregate; seclude; retire from public life
Sere : Sear; parched; dry
Serendipity : Gift for finding valuable things by accident; accidental good fortune or luck; cf. the three princes of serendip
Serenity : Calmness; placidity; adj. serene
Serpentine : Winding; twisting; of or like a serpent; ex. serpentine course of the river; n. serpent: snake
Serrated : Having a sawtoothed edge; ex. serrated leaf
Servitude : Slavery; compulsory labor imposed as a punishment
Sever : Separate; cut off (a part) from a whole; break up (a relationship); n. severance; cf. severance pay: extra pay given an employee upon leaving a position
Severity : Harshness; intensity; sternness; austerity; adj. severe: harsh; strict; extremely violent or intense
Sextant : Navigation tool used to determine a ship's latitude and longitude (by measuring the altitudes of stars)
Shack : Crude cabin
Shackle : Chain; fetter; confine with shackles; n.
Shade : Slight difference in degree; nuance; degree of color; ex. shades of meaning/grey
Sham : Pretend; feign; adj: not genuine; fake; ex. sham jewelry; n: something that is not what it appears; impostor; pretense; ex. the agreement was a sham.
Shambles : (place or scene of) complete disorder or ruin; wreck; mess; ex. after the hurricane, the coast was a shambles.
Shangri-la : Imaginary remote paradise on earth; cf. lost horizon
Shard : Fragment generally of broken pottery (glass, clay bowl, or cup)
Shaving : Very thin piece, usually of wood (cut from a surface with a sharp blade)
Sheaf : Bundle of stalks of grain; any bundle of things tied together
Shear : Remove (fleece or hair) by cutting; remove the hair or fleece from; cut with or as if with shears; n: shears; pair of scissors
Sheathe : Place into a case; insert into or provide with a sheath; ex. he sheathed his dagger; n. sheath: case for a blade
Shed : Small roofed structure for storage and shelter; v: pour forth; lose by natural process; repel without allowing penetration; radiate; cast; ex. shed tears/light/water/skin/leaves
Sheer : Pure; thin and transparent; very steep
Sherbet : Flavored dessert ice
Shift : Change position or place; exchange (one thing) for another; change in direction or position; ex. shift the stolen goods; n. group of workers which takes turns with other groups; working period of such a group
Shimmer : Shine with a flickering light; glimmer intermittently; ex. the moonlight shimmered on the water; n.
Shoddy : Made of inferior material; sham; not genuine; inferior; dishonest; ex. shoddy goods/trick
Shoot : New growth from a plant
Shove : Push forward; push roughly; ex. pushing and shoving to get on the bus; n.
Shrew : Scolding woman; very small mouselike animal
Shrewd : Clever; astute
Shrivel : Make or become shrunken and wrinkled (often by drying)
Shudder : Shake uncontrollably; tremble; v.
Shuffle : Mix together; jumble; move (something) from one place to another; slide (the feet) along the ground while walking; ex. shuffle papers from one pile to another; n.
Shun : Keep away from; avoid deliberately; ex. she has been shunned by her neighbors.
Shunt : Move (a railway train) from one track to another; turn aside; divert; sidetrack; ex. shunt traffic around an accident; n.
Shyster : Lawyer using questionable methods; unscrupulous practioner
Sibling : Brother or sister
Sibylline : Prophetic; oracular; n. sibyl: woman prophet (in the ancient world)
Sidereal : Relating to stars; ex. sidereal day
Sidetrack : Switch (a railroad car) to a siding; divert from a main issue; n. cf. siding: short section of railroad track connected by switches with a main track
Sift : Put through a sieve to separate fine from coarse particles; sort or examine carefully
Significant : Expressing a meaning; important; ex. significant smile; n. significance: importance; meaning; v. signify: denote; mean; signal; make known; matter; be significant
Silt : Sediment deposited by running water (at the entrance to a harbor or by a bend in a river)
Simian : Monkeylike; n: ape or monkey
Simile : Comparison of one thing with another, using the word like or as
Simper : Smirk; smile in a silly way; smile affectedly
Simplistic : Oversimplified
Sinecure : Well-paid position with little responsibility; cf. sine cure: without care; cf. san serif
Sinewy : (of meat) tough; strong and firm; muscular; n. sinew: tendon; strong cord connecting a muscle to a bone
Singular : Being only one; individual; unique; extraordinary; odd; ex. singular beauty/behavior
Sinister : Evil; ominous
Sinuous : Twisting; winding; bending in and out; not morally honest
Siren : Apparatus for making sounds; womanlike creature
Skeptic : Sceptic; doubter; person who suspends judgment until he has examined the evidence supporting a point of view; adj. skeptical; n. skepticism; scepticism
Skiff : Small light sailboat or rowboat
Skim : Read or glance through quickly; touch lightly in passing; brush; remove from the surface of a liquid
Skimp : Provide or use scantily; live very economically; ex. skimp on necessities; adj. skimpy: inadequate in amount; scanty; stingy; niggardly
Skinflint : Miser; stingy person
Skirmish : Minor fight; minor battle in war; v.
Skittish : Inconstant; capricious; frivolous; not serious; ex. charming but skittish young woman; cf. skit
Skulduggery(skullduggery) : Dishonest behavior or action; ex. skulduggery in the election
Skulk : Move furtively and secretly; ex. he skulked through the less fashionable sections of the city.
Slack : Moving slowly; sluggish; inactive; (of a rope) loose; negligent; lax; ex. slack season; ex. slack in one's work; n. v.
Slacken : Slow up; loosen; make or become slack
Slag : Glassy residue from smelting metal; dross; waste matter
Slake : Satisfy (thirst); quench; sate
Slander : Defamation; utterance of false and malicious statements; v. adj. slanderous
Slap : Hit quickly with the flat part of the hand; n. cf. smack
Slapdash : Hasty and careless; haphazard; sloppy(carelessly done)
Slavish : Of or like a slave; servile; showing no originality; copied very closely; ex. slavish devotion/copy of the original
Sleazy : Shabby and dirty; flimsy; insubstantial; ex. sleazy back-street hotel/fabric
Sledge : Large sled drawn by work animals
Sleek : Smooth and shining (as from good health); v.
Sleeper : One that achieves unexpected success; something originally of little value or importance that in time becomes very valuable
Sleigh : Large vehicle drawn by a horse over snow or ice
Sleight : Dexterity; cf. sleight of hand: legerdemain; quickness of the hands in doing tricks
Slew : Large quantity or number; ex. slew of errands left
Slick : Make smooth or glossy; n: smooth surface; ex. oil slick; adj: smooth; glossy; deftly executed; adroit; glib
Slight : Insult to one's dignity; snub; v: treat as if of small importance; insult; snub; adj. small in size; of small importance
Slink : Move furtively; adj. slinky: stealthy; furtive; sneaky (as in ambush)
Slipshod : Slovenly; careless; sloppy; untidy; shabby; ex. slipshod work
Slither : Slip or slide
Sloth : Slow moving tree-dwelling mammal; laziness; adj. slothful: lazy; indolent
Slough : (of a snake) shed or cast off (dead outer skin); n: outer layer that is shed
Slovenly : Untidy; careless in work habits; slipshod; n. sloven: one who is habitually untidy or careless
Sluggard : Lazy person
Sluggish : Lazy; slow; inactive; lethargic; cf. slug: nail with no shell
Sluice : Artificial channel for directing or controlling the flow of water (with a gate to regulate the flow)
Slur : Pronounce indistinctly; speak indistinctly; mumble
Sly : Clever in deceiving; secretive; not telling one's intentions
Smart : Intelligent; quick and energetic; fashionable; ex. smart pace/restaurant; v: cause or feel a sharp pain; n: smarting pain
Smear : Spread or cover with a sticky substance; n: mark made by smearing
Smelt : Melt (ore) for separating and removing the metal; melt or blend ores changing their chemical composition
Smirk : Conceited smile; offensively self-satisfied smile (often at someone else's misfortune); v.
Smolder : Smoulder; burn slowly without flame; be liable to break out at any moment; exist in a suppressed state; ex. smoldering anger
Smother : Kill from lack of air; suppress; cover thickly; ex. smothered in little stickers
Smudge : Dirty mark with unclear edges made by rubbing; v.
Smug : Self-satisfied; complacent
Sneak : Move, give, or take in a quiet, stealthy way; n: one who sneaks; adj. sneaky
Snicker : Half-stifled(suppressed) laugh; v.
Snip : Short quick cut with scissors; v: cut with scissors
Snivel : Complain or whine tearfully; run at the nose; snuffle; ex. don't come back sniveling to me.
Snub : Ignore or behave coldly toward; ex. i made a suggestion but she snubbed me; n.
Snuffle : Sniffle; sniff repeatedly (in order to keep liquid from running out of the nose)
Soar : Rise or fly high in the air; ex. the rocket soared into the sky.
Sober : Serious; solemn; not drunken; abstemious or temperate; v: make or become sober
Sobriety : Moderation (especially regarding indulgence in alcohol); seriousness
Sodden : Thoroughly soaked; dull or stupid as if from drink
Sojourn : Temporary stay; v: stay for a time
Solace : Comfort in sorrow or trouble; consolation; v: comfort or console in time of sorrow or trouble
Solder : Repair or make whole by using a metal alloy; n: metal alloy (usually tin and lead) used in the molten state to join metallic parts
Solecism : Nonstandard grammatical construction; construction that is flagrantly incorrect grammatically; violation of social etiquette
Solicit : Entreat; request earnestly; seek to obtain; ex. solicit votes; cf. solicitor: one who solicits; chief law officer
Solicitor : Lawyer in the lower court of law
Solicitous : Anxious; worried; concerned; eager; ex. solicitous to do something; n. solicitude
Soliloquy : Talking to oneself (esp. in a play); cf. monologue: soliloquy; long speech by one person (often monopolizing a conversation)
Solitude : State of being alone; seclusion; adj. solitary: existing or living alone (esp. by choice); remote or secluded; single; sole; ex. solitary life/inn; ex. no solitary piece of proof
Solstice : Point or time at which the sun is farthest from the equator
Soluble : Able to be dissolved in a liquid; able to be worked out or solved
Solvent : Substance that dissolves another; adj: capable of dissolving another substance
Somatic : Pertaining to the body; bodily; physical
Somber : Dark; gloomy; melancholy; depressing; cf. shadow
Somnambulist : Sleepwalker; v. somnambulate; n. somnambulism
Somnolent : Half asleep; drowsy; n. somnolence
Sonic : Of sound or its speed in air; cf. subsonic, supersonic
Sonnet : 14-line poetic verse form with a fixed rhyme pattern
Sonorous : Resonant; producing a full deep sound; producing sound
Soothsayer : One who foretells the future
Sophist : Teacher of philosophy; quibbler; employer of fallacious reasoning; n. sophism: plausible but fallacious argument
Sophisticated : Worldly wise and urbane; refined; complex; n. sophistication; v. sophisticate
Sophistry : Seemingly plausible but fallacious reasoning; sophism
Sophomoric : Immature; half-baked; like a sophomore
Soporific : Sleep-causing; marked by sleepiness; drowsy
Sordid : Filthy; foul; base; vile; ex. sordid bed/story
Sound : In good condition; showing good judgment or good sense; thorough; complete; ex. sound mind/investment/training
Sour : Having a sharp or acid taste; acid; tart; bad-tempered; v.
Sovereignty : Complete independence and self-government (of a country); supremacy of authority; power to govern
Sow : Plant or scatter seed
Spangle : Small shiny metallic piece sewn to clothing for ornamentation
Spare : Give; use; refrain from harming; save from experiencing; exempt; ex. spare me 5 minutes; ex. take this money and spare my life; ex. the emperor was spared the onus; adj: kept in reserve; free for other use; unoccupied; ex. spare time
Sparse : Not thick; thinly scattered; scanty
Spartan : Without attention to comfort; lacking luxury and comfort; sternly disciplined; ex. spartan living condition/life
Spasmodic : Fitful; periodic; of or like a spasm; n. spasm: sudden involuntary muscular contraction; sudden burst of energy or emotion
Spat : Squabble; minor dispute; minor quarrel
Spate : Sudden flood or rush; ex. spate of accidents
Spatial : Relating to space
Spatula : Broad-bladed instrument used for spreading or mixing
Spawn : Lay eggs (in large numbers); produce offspring (in large numbers); n: eggs of aquatic animals
Specious : Seemingly reasonable but incorrect; misleading (often intentionally)
Speck : Small piece or mark; ex. speck of dust in the eye
Spectral : Ghostly; n. specter: spectre; ghost; phantom
Spectrum : Colored band produced when a beam of light passes through a prism; broad and continuous range; ex. whole spectrum of modern thoughts
Speechless : Unable for the moment to speak (because of strong feeling); ex. speechless with anger
Spendthrift : Someone who wastes money; cf. thrift: accumulated wealth
Sphinx-like : Enigmatic; mysterious
Spin : Rotate swiftly; make (thread) by twisting (cotton, wool, etc.); n.
Splice : Join together end to end to make one continuous length; fasten together; unite; ex. splice two strips of tape; n.
Spoilsport : One who spoils the pleasure of others
Spoof : Parody
Spoonerism : Accidental transposition of sounds in successive words; ex. ``let me sew you to your sheet'' for ``let me show you to your seat''; cf. william spooner
Sporadic : Occurring irregularly; intermittent
Sportive : Playful; frolicsome; merry; cf. sport: play or frolic; cf. sportsmanlike
Sprout : Begin to grow; give off shoots or buds; n: new growth on a plant; shoot
Spruce : Neat and trim in appearance; smart; ex. be spruce for your job interview; v.
Spry : (esp. of older people) vigorously active; nimble
Spurious : False; counterfeit; forged; illogical; ex. spurious arguments
Spurn : Reject disdainfully; scorn; ex. she spurned all offers of help.
Squabble : Minor quarrel; bickering; v: engage in a minor quarrel; ex. squabbling children
Squalor : Condition of being squalid; filth; degradation; dirty neglected state; adj. squalid: dirty; sordid; morally repulsive; ex. squalid story
Squander : Waste; spend foolishly
Squash : Crush; quash; suppress
Squat : Short and thick; stocky; ex. ugly squat tower; v. n.
Squeamish : Easily shocked or sickened by unpleasant things; fastidious; ex. a nurse should not be squeamish.
Squelch : Produce a splashing sound (when stepping through mud); crush; squash;
Staccato : Played in an abrupt manner; marked by abrupt sharp sound; ex. staccato applause
Stagnant : (of water) not flowing (often bad-smelling); motionless; stale; not developing; inactive; dull; ex. stagnant industrial output
Staid : Serious and sedate; sober; ex. staid during the funeral ceremony
Stalemate : Deadlock; situation in which further action is blocked
Stalwart : Physically strong; brawny; steadfast; strong in mind or determination; ex. stalwart supporter; n: stalwart follower
Stamina : Power of endurance; strength; staying power
Stamp : Step on heavily (so as to crush or extinguish); put an end to; imprint or impress with a mark, design, or seal; shape with a die; characterize; ex. machine stamping out car bodies; ex. newspaper stamping him as a liar; n. stamping; implement us
Stampede : Sudden frenzied rush (of panic-stricken animals or people); v: participate in or cause stampede; ex. stampede before the price rises
Stanch : Stop or check flow of blood; ex. stanch the gushing wound
Standstill : Condition of no movement or activity; stop
Stanza : Division of a poem (composed of two or more lines)
Start : Move suddenly or involuntarily; ex. start at the sight of a snake
Stately : Formal; ceremonious; grand in style or size; majestic
Static : Having no motion; unchanging; lacking development; n. stasis: stable state
Statute : Law enacted by the legislature
Statutory : Created by statute or legislative action; regulated by statute; ex. statutory age limit
Steadfast : Steadily loyal; unswerving; steady
Stealth : Action of moving secretly or unseen; slyness; sneakiness; secretiveness; adj. stealthy
Steep : Soak; saturate; ex. steep the fabric in the dye bath; adj: precipitous
Stellar : Pertaining to the stars; of a star performer; outstanding; ex. stellar attraction of the entire performance
Stem : Stop or check (the flow of); ex. stem the bleeding from the slashed artery; n: main axis of a plant; stalk
Stem_from : Arise from; originate from
Stench : Strong foul odor; reek; stink
Stentorian : (of the voice) extremely loud; cf. stentor: a loud herald in the iliad
Stereotype : One regarded as embodying a set image or type; fixed and unvarying representation; standardized mental picture often reflecting prejudice; ex. stereotype of the happy slave; v: make a stereotype of; represent by a stereotype; ex. it is wrong to ster
Sterile : Incapable of producing young; free from microorganism; v. sterilize
Stifle : Suppress; extinguish; inhibit; smother or suffocate
Stigma : Token of disgrace; brand; v. stigmatize: mark with a stigma; characterize as disgraceful
Stilted : Bombastic; stiffly pompous; ex. stilted rhetoric; cf. stiff: formal
Stink : Stench; v: emit a strong foul odor
Stint : Supply; allotted amount of work; assigned portion of work; limitation; ex. two-year stint in the army; ex. without stint
Stipend : Pay for services
Stipple : Paint or draw with dots or short strokes
Stipulate : State as a necessary condition (of an agreement); make express conditions; specify; ex. he stipulated payment in advance
Stock : Standard; kept regularly in stock or supply; typical; routine; common; ex. stock sizes of paper; ex. stock excuse/character; n: goods for sale in a shop; op. unique
Stockade : Wooden enclosure or pen; fixed line of posts used as defensive barrier
Stodgy : Dull; stuffy; boringly conservative; ex. stodgy book
Stoic : Stoical; impassive; unmoved by joy or grief; n. cf. stoicism
Stoke : Stir up a fire or furnace; feed plentifully
Stolid : Dull; impassive; showing little emotion when strong feelings are expected
Stoop : Bend forward and down; lower or debase oneself; fall to a lower standard of behavior by doing something; condescend; ex. stoop to lying
Stout : Rather fat; strong in body; sturdy; resolute; determined; strong in determination; ex. stout stick/supporter
Straggle : Stray or fall behind (a main group); spread out in a scattered group; ex. straggling marathon racer; ex. straggling branch
Strangle : Kill by choking or suffocating; suppress
Stratagem : Deceptive scheme; clever trick
Stratified : Divided into classes; arranged into strata; v. stratify
Stratum : Layer of earth's surface; layer of society; pl. strata
Strew : Spread randomly; sprinkle; scatter; ex. flower girl strewing rose petals
Stricture : Severe and adverse criticism; critical comments; limit or restriction
Strident : Loud and harsh; insistent; n. stridency
Stringent : (of rules) binding; rigid; marked by scarcity of money; ex. stringent economic conditions
Strut : Supporting bar; cf. airplane wing building support
Studied : Carefully contrived; calculated; unspontaneous; deliberate; thoughtful; ex. studied remark
Studious : Given to diligent study
Stultify : Make stupid in mind; cause to appear or become stupid or inconsistent; suppress; frustrate or hinder; ex. stultifying effect of uninteresting work; ex. stultify free expression
Stumble : Trip and almost fall; proceed unsteadily; act falteringly; n.
Stump : Base of a tree trunk left after the rest has been cut down; v: walk in a heavy manner; baffle; puzzle
Stun : Make unconscious or numb as by a blow; amaze; astound
Stupefy : Stun; make numb (as with a drug); amaze
Stupor : State of being stupefied; state of apathy; daze; lack of awareness
Sturdy : Strong and firm (in the body)
Stygian : Unpleasantly dark; gloomy; hellish; deathly; cf. styx: the chief river in the subterranean land of the dead
Stymie : Thwart; present an obstacle; stump
Suavity : Urbanity; polish; adj. suave: smooth and courteous
Subaltern : Subordinate
Subdue : Less intense; quieter; ex. subdued lighting; ex. subdue: conquer; make less intense; quiet; ex. subdue one's anger
Subjective : Influenced by personal feelings; occurring or taking place within the mind; unreal; ex. subjective sensation of the ghostly presence
Subjugate : Conquer; bring under control
Sublimate : Refine; purify; replace (natural urges) with socially acceptable activities; change between a solid state and a gaseous state
Sublime : Causing deep feelings of wonder, joy, respect, etc.; exalted; noble and uplifting; utter
Subliminal : Below the threshold of conscious perception; ex. subliminal advertisement
Submissive : Willing to obey orders; yielding; timid
Subordinate : Occupying a lower rank; inferior; submissive; n. v: put in a lower rank or class
Suborn : Persuade to act unlawfully (especially to commit perjury); n. subornation
Subpoena : Writ(written command issued by a court) summoning a witness to appear in court; v: summon with a subpoena
Subsequent : Following in time or order; later
Subservient : Behaving like a slave; servile; obsequious; subordinate; n. subservience
Subside : Sink to a lower level; settle down; sink to the bottom (as a sediment); descend; grow quiet; become less; moderate; abate
Subsidiary : Serving to assist; subordinate; secondary; of a subsidy; n.
Subsidy : Direct financial aid by government, etc.; v. subsidize: assist with a subsidy
Subsistence : Existence; means of subsisting; means of support; livelihood; v. subsist: exist; maintain life (at a meager level)
Substantial : Of substance; material; solid; essential or fundamental; ample; considerable; well-to-do; wealthy
Substantiate : Support (a claim) with evidence; establish with evidence; verify
Substantive : Substantial; essential; pertaining to the substance; substantial; considerable; ex. substantive issues
Subsume : Include (as a member of a group); encompass
Subterfuge : Stratagem(deceptive scheme); pretense; evasion; ex. resort to a harmless subterfuge
Subtlety : Perceptiveness; ingenuity; delicacy; adj. subtle: delicate; so slight as to be difficult to detect; able to make fine distinctions; clever; ex. subtle mind/differences in meaning
Subversive : Tending to overthrow or ruin; v. subvert: overthrow completely (an established system); destroy completely; cf. undermine ?
Succor : Assist (someone in difficulty); aid; comfort; n.
Succulent : Juicy; full of juice or sap; full of richness; n: succulent plant such as a cactus
Succumb : Yield (to something overwhelming); give in; die; ex. succumb to the illness
Suffocate : Die or kill from lack of air; suppress
Suffragist : Advocate of the extension of voting rights (for women); cf. suffrage
Suffuse : Spread through or over (with a color or liquid); charge; ex. a blush suffused her cheeks.
Suitor : Man who is courting a woman
Sullen : Silently showing ill humor or resentment; dark; gloomy
Sully : Defile; soil; tarnish; ex. sully one's hands in menial labor
Sultry : (of weather) hot; sweltering; sensual; voluptuous
Summation : Act of finding the total; summing-up; summary (esp. one given by the judge at the end of a trial)
Sumptuous : Grand suggesting great expense; lavish; rich; ex. sumptuous feast
Sunder : Separate; part; cf. asunder
Sundry : Miscellaneous; various; several; n. sundries: small miscellaneous items
Superannuated : Retired or disqualified because of age; outmoded; obsolete
Supercilious : Haughty; arrogant; condescending; patronizing; cf. eyebrow, cilium
Supererogatory : Superfluous; more than needed or demanded
Superficial : Of the surface; not deep; shallow; not thorough; trivial; ex. superficial analysis/knowledge
Superfluous : Excessive; overabundant; unnecessary; n. superfluity
Superimpose : Place over something else
Supernumerary : Person or thing excess of what is necessary; extra; adj: additional to the usual or necessary number
Supersede : Replace; cause to be set aside; make obsolete; n. supersession
Supine : Lying on back; passive; inactive; ex. the defeated pugilist lay supine; ex. supine acceptance of the decision
Supplant : Take the place of unfairly; usurp; replace
Supple : Flexible; limber; pliant
Suppliant : Entreating; beseeching; n.
Supplicant : One who supplicates; adj.
Supplicate : Petition humbly; pray to grant a favor
Supposition : Assumption; hypothesis; surmise; v. suppose
Supposititious : Assumed; counterfeit; hypothetical
Suppress : Put an end to forcibly; subdue; stifle; overwhelm; inhibit the expression of; check; prevent from being published or made public; ex. suppress a smile; ex. suppress the magazine/truth
Surfeit : Satiate; feed or supply to excess; stuff; indulge to excess in anything; n: surfeiting; excessive amount; ex. surfeit of food
Surge : Powerful movement of or like a wave; v.
Surly : Bad-tempered; rude; cross
Surmise : Guess; n.
Surmount : Overcome
Surpass : Exceed
Surreptitious : Done secretly; secret; furtive; sneaky; hidden
Surrogate : Substitute; person or thing used in place of another; ex. surrogate mother; adj.
Surveillance : Close observation of a person (esp. one under suspicion); watching; guarding
Susceptible : Impressionable; easily influenced; sensitive; having little resistance as to a disease; likely to suffer; receptive to; capable of accepting; ex. susceptible to persuasion/colds; ex. the agreement is not susceptible of alteration; n. susceptibility
Suspend : Cause to stop for a period; interrupt; hold in abeyance; defer; hang from above; exclude for a period from a position; ex. suspended state; ex. suspend judgment; ex. suspended from the team; n. suspension
Suspense : State of being undecided; anxiety or apprehension resulting from uncertainty
Sustain : Suffer (harm or loss); experience; support; prop; maintain; keep in existence; nourish (to maintain life); ex. sustain the family/the trapped miners
Sustenance : Sustaining; means of livelihood, support, food, nourishment; something that maintains life; food
Suture : Stitches sewn to hold the cut edges of a wound or incision; material used in sewing; v: sew together a wound
Swagger : Walk or behave with an over-confident manner
Swamp : Wetland; marsh; v: flood; overwhelm; drench in with liquid
Swarm : Large group of insects moving in a mass; crowd of people or animals; v: move in a crowd or mass
Swarthy : (of a skin or complexion) dark; dusky; ex. swarthy italian ?
Sway : Swing from side to side; influence (someone) to change one's opinion; n.
Swear : Vow; promise; use profane oaths; use offensive words
Swear-word : Word considered offensive; ex. ``bloody''
Swell : Long wave of water that moves continuously without breaking; v.
Swelter : (of a person) suffer from oppressive heat; be oppressed by heat
Swerve : Deviate; turn aside sharply from a straight course; ex. swerve from the principle; ex. the car swerved to the right.
Swill : Drink greedily
Swindler : Cheater
Swipe : Hit with a sweeping motion; n.
Sybarite : Lover of luxury; person devoted to pleasure and luxury; cf. sybaris: an ancient greek city in italy
Sycophant : Servile flatterer; bootlicker; yes man; adj. sycophantic
Syllogism : Logical formula consisting of a major premise, a minor premise and a conclusion; deceptive or specious argument
Sylvan : Pertaining to the woods or the country
Symbiosis : Interdependent relationship (between groups, species) often mutually beneficial; adj. symbiotic; cf. together + life
Symmetry : Arrangement of parts so that balance is obtained; congruity; adj. symmetrical
Synchronous : Similarly timed; simultaneous with; occurring at the same time; v. synchronize
Synoptic : Providing a general overview; summary; n. synopsis
Synthesis : Combining parts or separate things into a whole; the whole so formed; pl. syntheses; v. synthesize
Synthetic : Not natural; artificial; resulting from synthesis; ex. synthetic fiber; n.
Tablet : Small round piece of medicine; flat piece of stone or metal bearing an inscription; ex. stone tablet on the wall
Taciturn : Habitually silent; talking little
Tact : Skill or sensitivity in dealing with people without causing offence
Tactful : Careful no to cause offence; op. tactless
Tactile : Pertaining to the organs or sense of touch
Taint : Contaminate; cause to lose purity; modify with a trace of something bad; ex. tainted reputation; n: stain; touch of decay or bad influence; cf. touch
Takeoff : Burlesque; act of leaving the ground
Talisman : Charm; object believed to give supernatural powers to or protect its bearer
Talon : Claw of bird
Tan : Convert (hide) into leather; make brown by exposure to the sun
Tangential : Only slightly connected; not central; peripheral; digressing; showing divergence; cf. tangent
Tangible : Able to be touched; real; concrete; palpable; possible to realize or understand; ex. tangible proof
Tanner : Person who turns animal hides into leather
Tantalize : Tease; excite by exposing something desirable while keeping it out of reach; torture with disappointment; cf. tantalus: greek mythological figure
Tantamount : Equivalent in effect or value; ex. this invasion is tantamount to a declaration of war; cf. amount
Tantrum : Fit of bad temper; fit of petulance; caprice; ex. the child went into tantrums.
Taper : Very thin candle; gradual decrease in the width of a long object; v. make or become gradually narrower toward one end
Tarantula : Venomous spider
Tardy : Slow; sluggish; not on time; late; ex. tardy arrival
Tarnish : Make or become dull or discolored; n.
Tarry : Linger; delay in starting or going; dawdle
Tart : Sharp to the taste; acid-tasting; caustic; sarcastic; ex. tart apple/reply
Tatter : Torn piece of cloth; adj. tattered: (of clothes) old and torn; (of a person) dressed in old torn clothes
Taunt : Deride or provoke; challenge in derision; n.
Taut : Tight; strained; tense; ready; op. slack
Tautological : Needlessly repetitious; ex. ``it was visible to the eye''; n. tautology: needless repetition of the same sense; statement that is always true
Tawdry : Cheap and gaudy; ex. tawdry jewelry
Tawny : Brownish yellow
Taxonomist : Specialist in classifying (animals, etc.); cf. taxonomy: science of classification
Tedium : Boredom; weariness; adj. tedious
Teetotalism : Practice of abstaining totally from alcoholic drinks; n. teetotaler;; adj. teetotal; cf. t + total
Temerity : Boldness; nerve; rashness; ex. temerity to ask for a pay increase after only three day's work
Temper : Moderate; make less severe; tone down or restrain; toughen (steel) as by alternate heating and cooling
Temperament : Characteristic frame of mind; disposition; emotional excess; adj. temperamental: of temperament; having frequent changes of temper; ex. temperamental dislike of sports; ex. temperamental actress
Temperate : Moderate; restrained; self-controlled; moderate in respect to temperature; cf. temperance: moderation and self-restraint; abstinence of alcoholic drinks; ex. temperance society
Tempestuous : Stormy; violent; impassioned; n. tempest: violent storm
Tempo : Speed of music
Temporal : Of time; not lasting forever; limited by time; temporary; secular; worldly
Temporize : Gain time as by postponing an action; avoid committing oneself
Tenacious : Holding fast (as to a belief); persistent
Tenacity : Firmness; persistence
Tenancy : Possession of land or building by rent; period of a tenant's occupancy
Tenant : One that pays rent to use property owned by another
Tend : Have a tendency; take care of; minister; serve at; apply one's attention; attend
Tendentious : Promoting a particular point of view; biased; having an aim; designed to further a cause; ex. tendentious rather than truth-seeking; cf. tend: move in a certain direction
Tender : Offer formally; extend; ex. tender one's resignation/the exact fare; n: formal offer; money; ex. legal tender; adj: young and vulnerable; sensitive to the touch; sore; soft; delicate; ex. child of tender years; ex. tender wound
Tenet : Doctrine; dogma
Tensile : Capable of being stretched; of tension; ex. tensile rubber
Tension : Stretching; condition of being stretched; mental strain; strained relationship between groups or people
Tentative : Not fully worked out or developed; provisional; experimental; uncertain; hesitant; not definite or positive; ex. tentative agreement/reply
Tenure : Holding of an office or real estate; time during which such an office is held
Tepid : Lukewarm; slightly warm; half-hearted; not eager; ex. tepid reaction to the new film; ex. tepid supporter
Terminal : Part that forms the end; railroad or bus station; adj. forming an end; ending in death; fatal; ex. terminal cancer
Termination : End; v. terminate
Terminology : Terms used in a science or art; study of nomenclature
Terminus : Last stop of railroad; end
Terrestrial : On or relating to the earth
Terse : Concise; abrupt; pithy
Tertiary : Third in order or rank
Tessellated : Mosaic; inlaid; ex. tessellated pattern
Testator : Maker of a will; cf. testatrix
Testy : Irritable; impatient and bad-tempered; short-tempered; n. testiness
Tether : Tie (an animal) with a rope or tether; n: rope or chain to which an animal is tied; limit of one's endurance; ex. the end of one's tether
Thematic : Of a theme; relating to a unifying motif or idea
Theocracy : Government run by religious leaders
Theoretical : Based on theory; not practical or applied; hypothetical
Therapeutic : Curative; n. therapy
Thermal : Pertaining to heat; producing heat; warm; ex. thermal bath; n: rising current of warm air
Thesis : Opinion put forward and supported by reasoned arguments
Thespian : Pertaining to drama; n: actor or actress
Thrall : Slave; bondage; slavery; ex. her beauty held him in thrall; cf. enthrall
Thrash : Beat with a whip or flail; defeat utterly; talk about thoroughly in order to find the answer; move wildly or violently; ex. the fishes thrashed about in the net.
Threadbare : Worn through till the threads show; shabby and poor; hackneyed; ex. threadbare excuses
Threat : Sign or warning (of coming danger); ex. threat of rain; v: express a threat; give warning of (something bad); ex. the cloud threatens rain.
Thresh : Beat (cereal plants) with a machine or flail to separate the grains from the straw
Thrifty : Careful about money; economical; n. thrift
Thrive : Prosper; flourish
Throb : (of a heart or machine) beat rapidly or violently; n. ex. hearthrob: heartbeat; sweetheart
Throes : Violent anguish
Throng : Crowd (of people or things); v.
Throttle : Strangle; regulate the speed of with a throttle; n: valve that regulates the flow; cf. throat ?
Thwart : Block or hinder; baffle; frustrate
Tickle : Touch (the body) lightly so as to cause laughter; please
Tightwad : Miser; excessively frugal person
Tiller : Handle used to move boat's rudder (to steer)
Timbre : Quality of a musical tone produced by a musical instrument (which distinguishes it from others of the same pitch)
Timidity : Lack of self-confidence or courage
Timorous : Fearful; timid; demonstrating fear
Tinge : Give a slight degree of a color or quality to; n: slight degree of a color or quality; ex. tinged with grey/jealousy
Tint : Slight degree of color; v: give a tint to
Tipple : Drink (alcoholic beverages) frequently; n: alcoholic drink
Tirade : Long angry denunciatory speech; diatribe; harangue; extended scolding; denunciation
Titanic : Gigantic; n. titan
Tithe : Tax of one-tenth (contributed to a church); v: pay a tithe
Titillate : Tickle; excite pleasantly; ex. not to titillate the audience but to enlighten it
Title : Name (of a book, film, etc.); mark of rank; formal appellation as of rank or office (such as lord or general); right or claim to possession; championship; ex. title as head of the family; ex. title to the estate
Titter : Nervous giggle; nervous laugh; v.
Titular : Of a title; in name only; nominal; having the title of an office without the obligations; ex. titular head of the company
Toady : Servile flatterer; yes man; sycophant; v: be a toady to; fawn
Toga : Roman outer robe
Token : Outward sign; ex. a token of our gratitude
Tome : Large volume; book
Tonsure : Shaving of the head especially by person entering religious orders; v.
Topography : Physical features of a region (such as the shape and height); cf. topo-: place
Topple : Become unsteady and fall down
Torpedo : Underwater explosive apparatus; v.
Torpor : Lethargy; sluggishness; dormancy; adj. torpid: lethargic; lazy; inactive; (of an animal) dormant; hibernating
Torque : Twisting force; force producing rotation
Torrent : Rushing stream; flood; ex. the rain fell in torrents.
Torrid : (of weather) hot or scorching; passionate; ex. torrid love affairs
Torso : Trunk of statue with head and limbs missing; human trunk
Tortuous : Winding; full of curves; ex. tortuous mountain road
Toss : Throw lightly; move or lift (the head) with a sudden motion; flip (a coin) to decide something
Totem : Animal, plant, or natural object serving as a symbol of a clan or family; representation of this; ex. totem pole
Totter : Shake or move unsteadily; sway as if about to fall
Touching : Causing a feeling of pity or sympathy; pathetic; v. touch: cause to feel pity or sympathy; adj. touched
Touchstone : Stone used to test the fineness of gold alloys; criterion; standard
Touchy : Oversensitive; easily offended; irasible; delicate; needing delicate handling; ex. touchy situation
Tout : Promote or publicize (one's goods or service); praise excessively (as a form of advertisement); cf. advertise
Toxic : Poisonous; n. toxicity
Tract : Propaganda pamphlet (esp. by a religious or political group); expanse of land; region of indefinite size; system of related organs; ex. digestive tract
Tractable : Docile; easily managed; (of something) easily changed or molded; n. tractability
Traduce : Expose to slander
Trajectory : Path taken by a projectile; ex. trajectory of a bullet
Tramp : Walk with a heavy step; travel on foot; n: vagrant; one who travels aimlessly about; long walk; sound of heavy walking
Trample : Step heavily with the feet; crush under the feet
Trance : Hypnotic state; ecstatic state; detachment from one's physical surrounding
Tranquillity : Calmness; peace
Transcendent : Exceeding ordinary limits; superior; surpassing; v. transcend: go beyond; exceed; surpass; n. transcendancy
Transcendental : Going beyond common thought or ideas; impossible to understand by practical experiences or practices; known only by studying thoughts or intuition; op. empirical; cf. transcendentalism
Transcribe : Copy; write a copy of; n. transcription
Transgression : Violation of a law; sin; v. transgress: go beyond (a limit); violate; do wrong
Transient : Staying for a short time; momentary; temporary; n: one that is transient
Transition : Going from one state of action to another
Transitory : Transient; impermanent; fleeting; n. transitoriness
Translucent : Partly transparent
Transmute : Transform; change; convert to something different
Transparent : Permitting light to pass through freely; easily detected; obvious; clear; ex. transparent lie
Transpire : (of a fact) become known; be revealed; happen; give off (watery waste matter) through pores
Transport : Strong emotion; rapture; ex. in a transport/transports of; v: move to strong emotion; enrapture
Transpose : Reverse the order or position of
Trappings : Outward decorations; ornaments (as an outward sign of rank)
Traumatic : (of an experience) deeply shocking; pertaining to an injury caused by violence; n. trauma: serious wound; emotional shock that causes lasting psychological damage
Travail : Strenuous work; toil; painful labor; labor of childbirth
Traverse : Go through or across
Travesty : Copy or example of something that completely misrepresents the true nature of the real thing; comical parody or imitation; treatment aimed at making something appear ridiculous; ex. travesty of justice; op. paragon
Tread : Walk; trample; n: grooved face of a tire; horizontal part of a step
Treasure : Keep as precious; cherish
Treatise : Article treating a subject systematically and thoroughly
Trek : Travel; journey; v: make a long difficult journey
Tremor : Trembling; slight quiver (as of the earth or from nervous agitation)
Tremulous : Trembling; wavering
Trenchant : Cutting; incisive; keen
Trepidation : Fear; nervous apprehension
Tribulation : Suffering; ordeal; distress; trial
Tribunal : Court of justice
Tribune : Official of ancient rome elected by the plebians to protect their rights; protector of the people
Tribute : Tax levied by a ruler; payment made by one nation to another in acknowledgment of submission; mark of respect (such as praise or gift); ex. pay tribute to
Trickle : Flow in drops or in a thin stream; n.
Trickster : Person who cheats people
Trident : Three-pronged spear
Trifle : Something of little importance or value; small amount; ex. a trifle; v: treat without seriousness; flirt
Trifling : Trivial; unimportant
Trigger : Set off; start
Trilogy : Group of three related works (connected by a shared subject but each complete in itself)
Trim : Make neat or tidy by clipping; reduce by removing what is unnecessary; ornament; decorate (round the edges); ex. trim the cost; ex. jacket trimmed with fur; n. adj: tidy; in good order
Trinket : Knickknack; bauble; cheap jewelry
Trite : Hackneyed; commonplace
Trivia : Trifles; unimportant matters
Troth : Pledge of good faith especially in betrothal; betrothal; ex. by my troth
Trough : Long narrow container for feeding farm animals; lowest point (of a wave, business cycle, etc.); long narrow depression as between waves
Truculence : Aggressiveness; ferocity; adj. truculent: aggressive; pugnacious; fierce
Truism : Self-evident truth
Truncate : Cut the top off; shorten
Trunk : Main wooden stem of a tree; human body excluding the head and limbs; torso; prehensile nose of an elephant
Tryst : Meeting arranged by lovers; arrangement between lovers to meet
Tumid : (of a part of the body) swollen; distended; bombastic; pompous
Tumult : Commotion of a great crowd; riot; noise; uproar; adj. tumultuous: noisy and disorderly
Tundra : Rolling treeless plain in siberia and arctic north america
Turbid : (of a liquid) having the sediment disturbed; muddy; thick
Turbulence : State of violent agitation; adj. turbulent: violently agitated or disturbed
Tureen : Deep dish for serving soup
Turgid : Swollen; distended (as from liquid)
Turmoil : Extreme confusion; great commotion and confusion; ex. throw the country into turmoil
Turncoat : Traitor
Turpitude : Depravity; baseness; ex. moral turpitude
Tutelage : Guardianship; training; function of a tutor; instruction
Tutelary : Protective; pertaining to a guardianship; ex. tutelary deities
Tycoon : Wealthy and powerful businessperson; wealthy leader; magnate; ex. business tycoon
Typhoon : Tropical hurricane or cyclone
Tyranny : Oppression; cruel government; adj. tyrannical: of a tyrant or tyranny; despotic; v. tyrannize: treat tyrannically; oppress
Ubiquitous : Being everywhere; omnipresent; n. ubiquity
Ulcer : Sore place appearing on the skin inside or outside the body; ex. stomach ulcer; adj. ulcerous; v. ulcerate
Ulterior : Intentionally hidden; beyond what is evident; situated beyond; unstated and often questionable; ex. ulterior motive
Ultimate : Final; not susceptible to further analysis; fundamental; ex. the sun is the ultimate source of energy.
Ultimatum : Last demand; last warning; last statement of conditions that must be met; ex. they have ignored our ultimatum.
Umbrage : Resentment; anger; sense of injury or insult; ex. take umbrage at his rudeness
Unaccountable : Unexplicable; impossible to account for; unreasonable or mysterious
Unanimity : Complete agreement; adj. unanimous
Unassailable : Not open to attack; impregnable; not subject to question
Unassuaged : Unsatisfied; not soothed
Unassuming : Modest; ex. the champion's unassuming manner
Unbridled : Violent; uncontrolled; ex. unbridled rage/greed
Uncanny : Strange; mysterious; ex. uncanny knack
Unceremonious : Not done politely without due formalities
Unconscionable : Unscrupulous; not guided by conscience; excessive; beyond reason; ex. unconscionable demand
Uncouth : Boorish; clumsy in speech or behavior; outlandish
Unction : The act of anointing with oil; ex. extreme unction
Unctuous : Oily; bland; insincerely suave
Underhand(underhanded) : Done slyly and secretly (being dishonest)
Underlying : Lying below; fundamental
Undermine : Weaken gradually; sap; dig a mine beneath
Underscore : Underline; emphasize
Understate : State with less truth than seems warranted by the facts; ex. he understated the seriousness of the crime; n. understatement; op. overstate
Undertaker : Funeral director; one whose business is to arrange burials
Undulating : Moving with a wavelike motion; v. undulate; cf. und: wave
Unearth : Dig up; discover (facts) by careful searching; ex. he unearthed some secrets about her; op. conceal
Unearthly : Not earthly; supernatural; weird; ghostly
Unequivocal : Plain; clear; obvious
Unerringly : Infallibly; adj. unerring: making no mistakes
Unexceptionable : Entirely acceptable; not offering any basis for criticism
Unfaltering : Steadfast; firm; not changing
Unfeigned : Genuine; real
Unfetter : Liberate; free from chains; v. unfetter
Unfledged : Immature; not having the feathers necessary to fly; cf. fledgling
Unfrock : Defrock; strip a priest or minister of church authority
Ungainly : (of someone) awkward in movement; clumsy; (of something) unwieldy; ex. ungainly dancer/instrument
Unguent : Ointment
Uniformity : Sameness; monotony; adj. uniform: the same all over
Unilateral : One-sided; involving or affecting only one side; ex. unilateral declaration
Unimpeachable : That cannot be impeached; beyond doubt or question; blameless and exemplary
Uninhibited : Unrepressed; free in behavior and feelings
Unintimating : Unfrightening
Unique : Without an equal; single in kind
Unison : Unity of pitch (in musical performance); complete accord; ex. the choir sang in unison.
Universal : Characterizing or affecting all; general; present everywhere; of the universe; cosmic; ex. universal agreement; ex. a subject of universal interest
Unkempt : Disheveled; uncared for in appearance; not combed; cf. comb
Unmitigated : (of something bad) not moderated; unrelieved or immoderate; without qualification; absolute; ex. unmitigated disaster
Unobtrusive : Inconspicuous; not blatant
Unprecedented : Having no previous example; novel; unparalleled
Unprepossessing : Unattractive
Unravel : Disentangle; solve
Unregenerate : Making no attempt to change one's bad practices
Unrequited : Not requited; not reciprocated; ex. unrequited love
Unruly : Disobedient; lawless; difficult to control
Unsavory : Distasteful; disagreeable; morally offensive; ex. unsavory activity/reputation
Unscathed : Unharmed; ex. escape the accident unscathed
Unseemly : Unbecoming; not proper in behavior; indecent; ex. leave with unseemly haste
Unsightly : Ugly; unpleasant to look at
Unsullied : Untarnished; cf. sully
Untenable : (of a position, esp. in an argument) indefensible; not able to be maintained
Untoward : Unexpected and adverse; unfortunate or unlucky; ex. untoward encounter
Unwarranted : Unjustified; having no justification; groundless; baseless; undeserved
Unwieldy : Awkward (to carry or move); cumbersome; unmanageable
Unwitting : Not knowing; unaware; unintentional; ex. she was their unwitting accomplice; ex. unwitting insult; cf. wit: know
Unwonted : Unaccustomed; unusual; ex. he arrived with unwonted punctuality.
Upbraid : Reprimand; severely scold
Upright : (sitting or standing) straight up; honest; moral
Uproar : Noisy confusion
Uproarious : Marked by commotion or uproar; very noisy (esp. with laughter); hilarious; causing loud laughter; extremely funny
Upshot : Outcome; final result
Urbane : Suave; refined in manner; elegant
Urchin : Mischievous child (usually a boy); cf. urchin: hedgehog; cf. porcupine: pig with spikes ?; cf. sea urchin
Urge : Drive or force forward (by causing impulses); drive to take action; impel; entreat earnestly; ex. urge horses; n: impulse that prompts action
Urgent : Compelling immediate action; pressing; persistent; importunate; ex. urgent in his demands
Ursine : Bearlike; pertaining to a bear
Usage : Act or manner of using; accepted practice; way in which words are actually used
Usurp : Seize another's power or rank (without legal authority); supplant; appropriate; n. usurpation; cf. take for one's own use
Usury : Lending money at illegal high rates of interest
Utopia : Ideal place, state, or society; adj. utopian
Uxorious : Excessively submissive or devoted to one's wife; cf. uxor: wife
Wade : Walk through a substance, such as water, that impedes movement
Waffle : Speak equivocally about an issue; n.
Wag : Shake repeatedly from side to side; ex. the dog wagged its tail; n: humorous person; wit
Wage : Begin and continue (a war)
Waggish : Humorous; mischievous; tricky
Waif : Homeless child or animal; ex. waifs and strays
Waive : Give up temporarily; yield; n. waiver: waiving a right or claim; document that waives a right or claim
Wake : Trail of ship or other object through water; path of something that has gone before; ex. hunger followed in the wake of the war
Wallow : Roll in mud; indulge in; (of a ship) roll in a rough sea; become helpless; ex. wallow in the mud/luxury
Wan : Having a pale or sickly color; pallid
Wanderlust : Strong longing to travel
Wane : Decrease in size or strength (after being full); grow gradually to an end; ex. the moon waxes and wanes every month; n.
Wangle : Achieve by cleverness or trick; wiggle out; fake; ex. she tried to wangle an invitation to the party.
Wanton : Unrestrained; gratuitously cruel; willfully malicious; unchaste; sexually improper; promiscuous; ex. wanton spending/killing; cf. having no just cause
Warble : (of a bird) sing; babble; n.
Ward : Administrative division of a city; division in a hospital or prison; incompetent person placed under the protection of a guardian; v: guard; ward off: avert
Warp : Twist out of shape; n.
Warrant : Justification; written order that serves as authorization (esp. a judicial writ); ex. search/death warrant; v: justify; guarantee
Warranted : Justified; authorized
Warranty : Guarantee; assurance by seller
Warren : Tunnels in which rabbits live; overcrowded living area; crowded conditions in which people live
Wary : Very cautious; watchful
Wastrel : Waster; profligate
Waver : Move or swing back and forth; be uncertain or unsteady in decision or movement; ex. wavering between accepting and refusing
Wax : Increase gradually (as the moon); grow
Waylay : Ambush; lie in wait for and attack
Weary : Tired after long work; v.
Weather : Pass safely through (a storm or difficult period); endure the effects of weather or other forces
Weird : Eerie; strange; unnatural
Well-bred : Of good upbringing; well-mannered and refined
Welt : Raised mark from a beating or whipping
Welter : Wallow (as in mud or high seas); lie soaked (as in blood); ex. the victims weltered in their blood.
Wheedle : Deceive, persuade, or obtain by flattery; cajole; coax; ex. wheedle a promise out of her
Whelp : Young animal (esp. of the dog or cat family); young wolf, dog, tiger, etc.
Whet : Sharpen; stimulate; ex. whet someone's appetite
Whiff : Puff or gust (of air, scent, etc.); short-lasting smell; hint; ex. whiff of perfume/scandal
Whim : Sudden capricious idea; fancy
Whimsical : Capricious; fanciful; amusingly strange
Whimsy : Whim; tendency to behave amusingly strangely; ex. story full of whimsy
Whine : Complain (in a sad voice); make a high sad sound (as in pain or supplication)
Whinny : Neigh like a horse; cf. neigh: make the sound which horses make
Whit : Small amount; smallest speck; ex. not a whit of
Whittle : Pare; cut away thin bits (from wood); fashion in this way; reduce gradually; trim
Wholesome : Conducive to mental or physical health; healthful
Whorl : Ring of leaves around stem; ring; circular arrangement; ex. whorls on the fingers
Wiggle : Wriggle; move from side to side with irregular twisting motions
Willful : Wilful; intentional; headstrong
Willowy : Flexible; pliant; slender; cf. willow
Wilt : Loose freshness; droop
Wily : Crafty; cunning; artful; n. wile: deceitful stratagem
Wince : Move back suddenly; shrink back; flinch; ex. she winced as she touched the cold body.
Windfall : Fallen fruit; unexpected lucky event
Winnow : Sift; separate the chaff from grain by blowing; separate good parts from bad; cf. wind
Winsome : Charming (in a childlike way); agreeable; gracious; engaging
Wisp : Small bunch (of hair); faint streak (of smoke)
Wispy : Thin; slight; barely discernible
Wistful : Sadly thoughtful (because of desires or memories); sadly pensive; vaguely longing
Withdrawn : Introverted; retiring; remote remote/distant in manner; aloof
Wither : (of a plant) dry up from loss of moisture; lose freshness; shrivel; decay
Withhold : Refuse to give; hold back; ex. withholding tax
Withstand : Stand up against; resist successfully
Witless : Lacking intelligence or wit; foolish; idiotic
Witticism : Witty saying; wisecrack(clever joking remark)
Wizardry : Sorcery; magic
Wizened : Shriveled; withered; ex. wizened apple/old lady
Woe : Great sorrow; deep inconsolable grief; affliction; suffering; ex. financial woes
Woeful : Sad; (of something bad) deplorable; deplorably bad; ex. woeful housing conditions
Wont : (the stated person's) habit or custom; habitual procedure; adj. wonted: customary
Worldly : Engrossed in matters of this earth; not spiritual; of the material world
Wrangle : Quarrel noisily; obtain through arguing; herd cattle; n.
Wrath : Anger; fury
Wreak : Inflict; ex. wreak one's vengeance on
Wrench : Twist; pull; strain; ex. he wrenched the gun out of her hands.
Wrest : Obtain by pulling violently; pull away; take by violence; ex. wrest victory from their grasp
Wretch : Miserable person; bad or despicable person; adj. wretched: miserable; bad; contemptible; vile
Wring : Twist (to extract liquid); extract by twisting; wrench painfully (necks or hands)
Wrinkle : Small ridge on a smooth surface (face or cloth); v.
Writ : Written command issued by a court (telling someone to do or not to do something)
Writhe : Twist in coils; contort in pain
Wrongheaded : Stubbornly wrong
Yen : Strong desire; longing; urge; ex. yen for travel
Yeoman : Man or farmer owning small estate; middle-class farmer
Yield : Amount produced; crop; income on investment; profit obtained from an investment; v: produce; give in; surrender
Yoke : Join together; unite; n: crossbar used to joining two draft animals
Yokel : Rustic; country bumpkin;
Zany : Comic; crazy; n: clown; comical person (given to outlandish behavior)
Zeal : Eager enthusiasm (to a cause or ideal); adj. zealous
Zealot : One who is zealous; fanatic; person who shows excessive zeal
Zenith : Point directly overhead in the sky; summit; acme; highest point
Zephyr : Gentle breeze; west wind
Zest : Outer skin of an orange used for giving a special taste to food; spice; interest; flavor; spirited enjoyment; ex. add a certain zest to the affair; ex. zest for life
